
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

MIME::QuotedPrint - Encoding and decoding of quoted-printable strings

=end original

MIME::QuotedPrint - quoted-printable文字列のエンコードとデコード

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use MIME::QuotedPrint;

 $encoded = encode_qp($decoded);
 $decoded = decode_qp($encoded);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This module provides functions to encode and decode strings into the
Quoted-Printable encoding specified in RFC 2045 - I<MIME (Multipurpose
Internet Mail Extensions)>.  The Quoted-Printable encoding is intended
to represent data that largely consists of bytes that correspond to
printable characters in the ASCII character set.  Non-printable
characters (as defined by english americans) are represented by a
triplet consisting of the character "=" followed by two hexadecimal
digits.

=end original

このモジュールは RFC 2045 - I<MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)> の中で
定義されているQuoted-Printableエンコード方式への文字列のエンコードとデコードを
行なう関数を提供するモジュールです。Quoted-Printableエンコード方式は
ASCII文字セットでの出力可能な文字に対応するバイトで主に構成される
データを表すことが意図されています。(english americansによって定義される)出力
できない文字は"="の後に16進数がつく3文字によって表されます。

=begin original

The following functions are provided:

=end original

以下の関数が提供されます:

=over 4

=item encode_qp($str)

=begin original

This function will return an encoded version of the string given as
argument.

=end original

この関数は引数として与えられた文字列のエンコードされたバージョンを
返します。

=begin original

Note that encode_qp() does not change newlines C<"\n"> to the CRLF
sequence even though this might be considered the right thing to do
(RFC 2045 (Q-P Rule #4)).

=end original

それが正しい(RFC 2045 (Q-P Rule #4))ことだと考えられるとしても、
encode_qp()は改行C<"\n">をCRLFのシーケンスに変更しないことに注意
してください。

=item decode_qp($str);

=begin original

This function will return the plain text version of the string given
as argument.

=end original

この関数は与えられた文字列の平文のバージョンを返します。

=back

=begin original

If you prefer not to import these routines into your namespace you can
call them as:

=end original

これらの関数をあなたの名前空間にインポートすることを好ましく
思わないのであれば、以下のように呼ぶことが出来ます:

  use MIME::QuotedPrint ();
  $encoded = MIME::QuotedPrint::encode($decoded);
  $decoded = MIME::QuotedPrint::decode($encoded);

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1995-1997 Gisle Aas.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 翻訳者

川合孝典 (GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp)
