
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

AutoLoader - load subroutines only on demand

=end original

AutoLoader - 要求に応じてのみサブルーチンを読み込む

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=begin original

    package Foo;
    use AutoLoader 'AUTOLOAD';   # import the default AUTOLOAD subroutine

=end original

    package Foo;
    use AutoLoader 'AUTOLOAD';   # デフォルトの AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを読み込む

=begin original

    package Bar;
    use AutoLoader;              # don't import AUTOLOAD, define our own
    sub AUTOLOAD {
        ...
        $AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD = "...";
        goto &AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD;
    }

=end original

    package Bar;
    use AutoLoader;              # AUTOLOAD をインポートせずに自身のものを定義する
    sub AUTOLOAD {
        ...
        $AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD = "...";
        goto &AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

The B<AutoLoader> module works with the B<AutoSplit> module and the
C<__END__> token to defer the loading of some subroutines until they are
used rather than loading them all at once.

=end original

B<AutoLoader> モジュールは、B<AutoSplit> モジュールと C<__END__> トークンと
ともに動作し、サブルーチンすべてを一度に読み込むのではなくて、
使われるまでサブルーチンの読み込みを延期します。

=begin original

To use B<AutoLoader>, the author of a module has to place the
definitions of subroutines to be autoloaded after an C<__END__> token.
(See L<perldata>.)  The B<AutoSplit> module can then be run manually to
extract the definitions into individual files F<auto/funcname.al>.

=end original

B<AutoLoader> を使うために、モジュールの作者は、自動的に読み込む
サブルーチンの定義を C<__END__> トークンの後に置く必要があります。
(L<perldata> を見てください。)
B<AutoSplit> モジュールを手動で走らせると、定義を個々の
F<auto/funcname.al> ファイルに抜きだします。

=begin original

B<AutoLoader> implements an AUTOLOAD subroutine.  When an undefined
subroutine in is called in a client module of B<AutoLoader>,
B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD subroutine attempts to locate the subroutine in a
file with a name related to the location of the file from which the
client module was read.  As an example, if F<POSIX.pm> is located in
F</usr/local/lib/perl5/POSIX.pm>, B<AutoLoader> will look for perl
subroutines B<POSIX> in F</usr/local/lib/perl5/auto/POSIX/*.al>, where
the C<.al> file has the same name as the subroutine, sans package.  If
such a file exists, AUTOLOAD will read and evaluate it,
thus (presumably) defining the needed subroutine.  AUTOLOAD will then
C<goto> the newly defined subroutine.

=end original

B<AutoLoader> は、AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを実装します。
未定義のサブルーチンが、B<AutoLoader> のクライアントモジュールで
呼び出されると、B<AutoLoader> の AUTOLOAD サブルーチンは、
クライアントモジュールが読まれたそのファイルの位置に関係する名前で、
ファイル中のサブルーチンを見つけようとします。
例えば、F<POSIX.pm> が F</usr/local/lib/perl5/POSIX.pm> にあると、
B<AutoLoader> は perl の B<POSIX> のサブルーチンを
F</usr/local/lib/perl5/auto/POSIX/*.al> から探します;
C<.al> ファイルは、パッケージ名なしのサブルーチンと同じ名前です。
そのようなファイルがあれば、AUTOLOAD はそれを読んで評価します;
このようにして、(おそらく)必要とされるサブルーチンを定義します。
それから、AUTOLOAD は新たに定義されたサブルーチンへ C<goto> します。

=begin original

Once this process completes for a given function, it is defined, so
future calls to the subroutine will bypass the AUTOLOAD mechanism.

=end original

その関数のためにこの処理が一旦実行されると、これは定義され、
以後のサブルーチンの呼び出しは AUTOLOAD の機構を飛ばします。

=head2 Subroutine Stubs

(サブルーチンスタブ)

=begin original

In order for object method lookup and/or prototype checking to operate
correctly even when methods have not yet been defined it is necessary to
"forward declare" each subroutine (as in C<sub NAME;>).  See
L<perlsub/"SYNOPSIS">.  Such forward declaration creates "subroutine
stubs", which are place holders with no code.

=end original

メソッドがまだ定義されていないときにでもオブジェクトメソッドの調査や
プロトタイプチェックを正確に行うために、
それぞれのサブルーチンを(C<sub NAME;> のように)、
「前方宣言」する必要があります。
L<pelsub/"SYNOPSIS"> を見てください。
このような前方宣言は、「サブルーチンスタブ」を作ります;
これは、コード無しのプレースホルダです。

=begin original

The AutoSplit and B<AutoLoader> modules automate the creation of forward
declarations.  The AutoSplit module creates an 'index' file containing
forward declarations of all the AutoSplit subroutines.  When the
AutoLoader module is 'use'd it loads these declarations into its callers
package.

=end original

AutoSplit と、B<AutoLoader> モジュールは前方宣言の作成を自動化します。
AutoSplit モジュールは、'index' ファイルを作り、そこに
AutoSplit が分割したすべてのサブルーチンの前方宣言を置きます。
AutoLoader モジュールが 'use' されると、その呼び出し元パッケージに
それらの定義を読み込みます。 

=begin original

Because of this mechanism it is important that B<AutoLoader> is always
C<use>d and not C<require>d.

=end original

この機構のため、B<AutoLoader> は常に C<use> され、
C<require> されないということが重要です。

=head2 Using B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD Subroutine

(B<AutoLoader> の AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを使う)

=begin original

In order to use B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD subroutine you I<must>
explicitly import it:

=end original

B<AutoLoader> の AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを使うに、
明示的にそれをインポート I<しなければなりません>。

    use AutoLoader 'AUTOLOAD';

=head2 Overriding B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD Subroutine

(B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD サブルーチンをオーバーロードする)

=begin original

Some modules, mainly extensions, provide their own AUTOLOAD subroutines.
They typically need to check for some special cases (such as constants)
and then fallback to B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD for the rest.

=end original

いくつかのモジュール、主にエクステンションは、自分自身の AUTOLOAD
サブルーチンをもっています。
それらは典型的に、(定数のような)いくつかの特別な場合のために
チェックする必要があり、
それから、残りの作業のために B<AutoLoader> の AUTOLOAD に
フォールバックする必要があります。

=begin original

Such modules should I<not> import B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD subroutine.
Instead, they should define their own AUTOLOAD subroutines along these
lines:

=end original

このようなモジュールは B<AutoLoader> の AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを
インポートすべきでは I<ありません>。
そのかわりに、そのようなモジュールは、次のように、自分自身の
AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを定義すべきです;

    use AutoLoader;
    use Carp;

    sub AUTOLOAD {
        my $sub = $AUTOLOAD;
        (my $constname = $sub) =~ s/.*:://;
        my $val = constant($constname, @_ ? $_[0] : 0);
        if ($! != 0) {
            if ($! =~ /Invalid/ || $!{EINVAL}) {
                $AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD = $sub;
                goto &AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD;
            }
            else {
                croak "Your vendor has not defined constant $constname";
            }
        }
        *$sub = sub { $val }; # same as: eval "sub $sub { $val }";
        goto &$sub;
    }

=begin original

If any module's own AUTOLOAD subroutine has no need to fallback to the
AutoLoader's AUTOLOAD subroutine (because it doesn't have any AutoSplit
subroutines), then that module should not use B<AutoLoader> at all.

=end original

(AutoSplit するサブルーチンを全くもっていないために)、モジュールの
AUTOLOAD サブルーチンが、
AutoLoader の AUTOLOAD サブルーチンにフォールバックする必要がなければ、
そのモジュールは B<AutoLoader> を、全く使わないべきです。

=head2 Package Lexicals

(パッケージレキシカル)

=begin original

Package lexicals declared with C<my> in the main block of a package
using B<AutoLoader> will not be visible to auto-loaded subroutines, due to
the fact that the given scope ends at the C<__END__> marker.  A module
using such variables as package globals will not work properly under the
B<AutoLoader>.

=end original

B<AutoLoader> を使っているパッケージの main ブロックで、
C<my> で宣言されたパッケージレキシカルの変数は、自動的に読み込まれた
サブルーチンには見えません;
これは、与えられたスコープが C<__END__> マーカーで終るという事実によります。
そのような変数をパッケージのグローバル変数のように使っているモジュールは、
B<AutoLoader> のもとでは、うまく動きません。

=begin original

The C<vars> pragma (see L<perlmod/"vars">) may be used in such
situations as an alternative to explicitly qualifying all globals with
the package namespace.  Variables pre-declared with this pragma will be
visible to any autoloaded routines (but will not be invisible outside
the package, unfortunately).

=end original

C<vars> プラグマ(L<perlmod/"vars"> を見てください)が、こういった状況で、
パッケージの名前空間で明示的に完全修飾したグローバル変数に変わるものとして、
使えます。
このプラグマで先に宣言された変数は、どのような、自動的に
読み込まれるルーチンにも見えます
(しかし、残念ながら、パッケージの外側からは見えません。)

=head2 Not Using AutoLoader

(AutoLoaderを使わない)

=begin original

You can stop using AutoLoader by simply

=end original

AutoLoader を使わなくするには、単純に次のようにします:

	no AutoLoader;

=head2 B<AutoLoader> vs. B<SelfLoader>

=begin original

The B<AutoLoader> is similar in purpose to B<SelfLoader>: both delay the
loading of subroutines.

=end original

B<AutoLoader> は、B<SelfLoader> の目的と類似性があります：
両方ともサブルーチンの読み込みを遅らせるものです。

=begin original

B<SelfLoader> uses the C<__DATA__> marker rather than C<__END__>.
While this avoids the use of a hierarchy of disk files and the
associated open/close for each routine loaded, B<SelfLoader> suffers a
startup speed disadvantage in the one-time parsing of the lines after
C<__DATA__>, after which routines are cached.  B<SelfLoader> can also
handle multiple packages in a file.

=end original

B<SelfLoader> は、C<__END__> ではなくて、C<__DATA__> マーカーを使います。
このことにより、それぞれのルーチンを読み込むために、
ディスクファイルの階層を使い、関連する open/close を避ける一方で、
B<SelfLoader> は、ルーチンがキャッシュされた後、C<__DATA__> を一度
パースするので、起動速度の不利を被ります。
また、B<SelfLoader> は一つのファイルで複数のパッケージを取り扱えます。

=begin original

B<AutoLoader> only reads code as it is requested, and in many cases
should be faster, but requires a mechanism like B<AutoSplit> be used to
create the individual files.  L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> will invoke
B<AutoSplit> automatically if B<AutoLoader> is used in a module source
file.

=end original

B<AutoLoader> は、要求されたときにだけコードを読みます;
多く場合、これはより高速です; しかし、独立したファイルを作成するのに使われる
B<AutoSplit> のような機構を必要とします。
B<AutoLoader> がモジュールのソースファイルで使われると、
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> は B<AutoSplit> を自動的に呼び出します。

=head1 CAVEATS

=begin original

AutoLoaders prior to Perl 5.002 had a slightly different interface.  Any
old modules which use B<AutoLoader> should be changed to the new calling
style.  Typically this just means changing a require to a use, adding
the explicit C<'AUTOLOAD'> import if needed, and removing B<AutoLoader>
from C<@ISA>.

=end original

Perl 5.002 より前の AutoLoader は、少し違ったインターフェースでした。
B<AutoLoader> を使っている古いモジュールは、
新しいスタイルの呼び出しに変更するべきです。
一般に、このことは、次のことを意味します;
require を use  に変えること、必要なら明示的な C<'AUTOLOAD'> のインポートを
加えること、@ISA から B<AutoLoader> を削除することです。

=begin original

On systems with restrictions on file name length, the file corresponding
to a subroutine may have a shorter name that the routine itself.  This
can lead to conflicting file names.  The I<AutoSplit> package warns of
these potential conflicts when used to split a module.

=end original

システムに、ファイル名の長さに関する制限があると、
ファイルとサブルーチンの一致のために、ルーチン自身より
より短い名前になるかもしれません。
このことは、ファイル名の衝突を引き起こすかも知れません。
I<AutoSplit> パッケージは、モジュールを分割するときに、
こういった潜在的な衝突を警告します。

=begin original

AutoLoader may fail to find the autosplit files (or even find the wrong
ones) in cases where C<@INC> contains relative paths, B<and> the program
does C<chdir>.

=end original

C<@INC> の中に相対パスがあり、B<かつ＞ プログラムが C<chdir> した場合、
AutoLoader は、自動的に分割されたファイルを見付けるのに失敗するかも知れません
(または、間違ったファイルを見つけるかも知れません)。

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SelfLoader> - 外部ファイルを使わないオートローダー

=head1 AUTHOR

C<AutoLoader> is maintained by the perl5-porters. Please direct
any questions to the canonical mailing list. Anything that
is applicable to the CPAN release can be sent to its maintainer,
though.

Author and Maintainer: The Perl5-Porters <perl5-porters@perl.org>

Maintainer of the CPAN release: Steffen Mueller <smueller@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This package has been part of the perl core since the first release
of perl5. It has been released separately to CPAN so older installations
can benefit from bug fixes.

This package has the same copyright and license as the perl core:

             Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
        2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008
        by Larry Wall and others
    
			    All rights reserved.
    
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of either:
    
	a) the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
	Software Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any
	later version, or
    
	b) the "Artistic License" which comes with this Kit.
    
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See either
    the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for more details.
    
    You should have received a copy of the Artistic License with this
    Kit, in the file named "Artistic".  If not, I'll be glad to provide one.
    
    You should also have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program in the file named "Copying". If not, write to the 
    Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 
    02111-1307, USA or visit their web page on the internet at
    http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html.
    
    For those of you that choose to use the GNU General Public License,
    my interpretation of the GNU General Public License is that no Perl
    script falls under the terms of the GPL unless you explicitly put
    said script under the terms of the GPL yourself.  Furthermore, any
    object code linked with perl does not automatically fall under the
    terms of the GPL, provided such object code only adds definitions
    of subroutines and variables, and does not otherwise impair the
    resulting interpreter from executing any standard Perl script.  I
    consider linking in C subroutines in this manner to be the moral
    equivalent of defining subroutines in the Perl language itself.  You
    may sell such an object file as proprietary provided that you provide
    or offer to provide the Perl source, as specified by the GNU General
    Public License.  (This is merely an alternate way of specifying input
    to the program.)  You may also sell a binary produced by the dumping of
    a running Perl script that belongs to you, provided that you provide or
    offer to provide the Perl source as specified by the GPL.  (The
    fact that a Perl interpreter and your code are in the same binary file
    is, in this case, a form of mere aggregation.)  This is my interpretation
    of the GPL.  If you still have concerns or difficulties understanding
    my intent, feel free to contact me.  Of course, the Artistic License
    spells all this out for your protection, so you may prefer to use that.

=begin meta

Update: Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org> (5.68)

=end meta

=cut
