=head1 NAME

POE::Driver::SysRW - an abstract sysread/syswrite file driver

POE::Driver::SysRW - アブストラクトsysread/syswriteファイルドライバ

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $driver = POE::Driver::SysRW->new();
  $arrayref_of_data_chunks = $driver->get($filehandle);
  $queue_octets = $driver->put($arrayref_of_data_chunks);
  $queue_octets = $driver->flush($filehandle);
  $queue_messages = $driver->get_out_messages_buffered();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This driver implements an abstract interface to sysread and syswrite.

このドライバはsysreadとsyswriteへのアブストラクトインターフェースを実装
します。

=head1 PUBLIC METHODS

=over 2

=item new BlockSize => $block_size

=item new

new() creates a new SysRW driver.  It accepts one optional named
parameter, BlockSize, which tells it how much information to read at a
time.  BlockSize defaults to 512 if it is omitted.

new()は新しいSysRWドライバを生成します。オプショナルの名前付き引数
BlockSizeを1つ受け取ります。BlockSizeは一度にどれだけの情報を読むかを伝
えます。BlockSizeは省略された場合512がデフォルトになります。

  my $driver = POE::Driver::SysRW->new( BlockSize => $block_size );

  my $driver = POE::Driver::SysRW->new;

syswrite() size defaults to the size of whatever is given to put().

syswrite()のサイズはput()に与えられたもののサイズがデフォルトになります。

=back

=head1 DESIGN NOTES

Driver::SysRW uses a queue of output messages.  This means that
BLOCK_SIZE is not used for writing.  Rather, each message put()
through the driver is written in its entirety (or not, if it fails).
This often means more syswrite() calls than necessary, however it
makes memory management much easier.

Driver::SysRWは出力メッセージのキューを使います。これは書き込みに対して
BLOCK_SIZEを使わないことを意味します。正確に言えば、ドライバを通して
put()される各メッセージはそれ全体が書き込まれるか、あるいは失敗すれば全
く何も書かれません。これはしばしば必要とされるよりも多くsyswrite()が呼
び出されることを意味しますが、メモリ管理をより簡単にします。

If the driver used a scalar buffer for output, it would be necessary
to use substr() to remove the beginning of it after it was written.
Each substr() call requires the end of the string be moved down to its
beginning.  That is a lot of memory copying.

もしドライバが出力にスカラバッファを使うとすると、データが書き込まれた
後にバッファの先頭を取り除くためにsubstr()を使う必要があるでしょう。各
substr()呼び出しはその文字列の最後を先頭まで動かす必要があります。それ
は大量のメモリコピーです。

The buffer could be allowed to grow until it has flushed entirely.
This would be eliminate extra memory copies entirely, but it would
then be possible to create programs where the buffer was not allowed
to shrink at all.  That would quickly become bad.

バッファは完全にフラッシュするまで大きくなることが許されているかもしれ
ません。これは余分なメモリコピーを完全に除去できるでしょうが、そうする
とバッファを小さくすることが全く許されていないプログラムを作成すること
が可能になるでしょう。それはすぐにひどくなるでしょう。

Better ideas are welcome.

よりよいアイデアを歓迎します。

=head1 SEE ALSO

POE::Driver.

The SEE ALSO section in L<POE> contains a table of contents covering
the entire POE distribution.

L<POE>のSEE ALSOセクションがPOEのディストリビューション全体をカバーする
目次を含んでいます。

=head1 AUTHORS & COPYRIGHTS

Please see L<POE> for more information about authors and contributors.

作者と貢献者についての詳しい情報はL<POE>を参照してください。

=head1 Translators

井上 謙次 <deq@oct.zaq.ne.jp>
