=pod

=head1 NAME

Email::Sender::Role::CommonSending - the common sending tasks most Email::Sender classes will need

=head1 VERSION

version 0.093380

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Email::Sender::Role::CommonSending provides a number of features that should
ease writing new classes that perform the L<Email::Sender> role.  Instead of
writing a C<send> method, implementors will need to write a smaller
C<send_email> method, which will be passed an L<Email::Abstract> object and
envelope containing C<from> and C<to> entries.  The C<to> entry will be
guaranteed to be an array reference.

A C<success> method will also be provided as a shortcut for calling:

  Email::Sender::Success->new(...);

A few other minor details are handled by CommonSending; for more information,
consult the source.

The methods documented here may be overriden to alter the behavior of the
CommonSending role.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 prepare_email

This method is passed a scalar and is expected to return an Email::Abstract
object.  You probably shouldn't override it in most cases.

=head2 prepare_envelope

This method is passed a hashref and returns a new hashref that should be used
as the envelope passed to the C<send_email> method.  This method is responsible
for ensuring that the F<to> entry is an array.

=head2 success

  ...
  return $self->success;

This method returns a new Email::Sender::Success object.  Arguments passed to
this method are passed along to the Success's constructor.  This is provided as
a convenience for returning success from subclasses' C<send_email> methods.

=head1 AUTHOR

  Ricardo Signes <rjbs@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2009 by Ricardo Signes.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.


=cut

