
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

HTTP::Request - HTTP style request message

=end original

HTTP::Request - HTTP 形式のリクエストメッセージ

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 require HTTP::Request;
 $request = HTTP::Request->new(GET => 'http://www.example.com/');

=begin original

and usually used like this:

=end original

そして通常は以下のようにして使います:

 $ua = LWP::UserAgent->new;
 $response = $ua->request($request);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

C<HTTP::Request> is a class encapsulating HTTP style requests,
consisting of a request line, some headers, and a content body. Note
that the LWP library uses HTTP style requests even for non-HTTP
protocols.  Instances of this class are usually passed to the
request() method of an C<LWP::UserAgent> object.

=end original

C<HTTP::Request> クラスは HTTP 形式のリクエストをカプセル化します。
レスポンスはリクエスト行、いくつかのヘッダ、そして内容の本体(content body)で
構成されます。
LWP ライブラリは HTTP プロトコルでないスキームにも、HTTP 形式のリクエストを
使っていることに注意してください。
このクラスのインスタンスは普通は C<LWP::UserAgent> オブジェクトの
request() メソッドに渡されます。

=begin original

C<HTTP::Request> is a subclass of C<HTTP::Message> and therefore
inherits its methods.  The following additional methods are available:

=end original

C<HTTP::Request> は C<HTTP::Message> のサブクラスなので、そのメソッドを
継承しています。
以下の追加のメソッドが利用できます:

=over 4

=item $r = HTTP::Request->new( $method, $uri )

=item $r = HTTP::Request->new( $method, $uri, $header )

=item $r = HTTP::Request->new( $method, $uri, $header, $content )

=begin original

Constructs a new C<HTTP::Request> object describing a request on the
object $uri using method $method.  The $method argument must be a
string.  The $uri argument can be either a string, or a reference to a
C<URI> object.  The optional $header argument should be a reference to
an C<HTTP::Headers> object or a plain array reference of key/value
pairs.  The optional $content argument should be a string of bytes.

=end original

オブジェクト $uri へメソッド $method を使ったリクエストについて記述する
C<HTTP::Request> オブジェクトを組みたてます。
$method 引数は文字列でなければなりません。
$uri 引数は文字列か C<URI> オブジェクトへのリファレンスが指定できます。
オプションの $header 引数は C<HTTP::Headers> オブジェクトへの
リファレンスか、キー/値のペアの配列へのリファレンスでなければなりません。
オプションの $content 引数はバイト列の文字列です。

=item $r = HTTP::Request->parse( $str )

=begin original

This constructs a new request object by parsing the given string.

=end original

これは、与えられた文字列をパースすることによって新しいリクエスト
オブジェクトを構築します。

=item $r->method

=item $r->method( $val )

=begin original

This is used to get/set the method attribute.  The method should be a
short string like "GET", "HEAD", "PUT" or "POST".

=end original

これはメソッド属性を取得/設定するために使われます。
メソッドは "GET", "HEAD", "PUT", "POST" のような短い文字列であるべきです。

=item $r->uri

=item $r->uri( $val )

=begin original

This is used to get/set the uri attribute.  The $val can be a
reference to a URI object or a plain string.  If a string is given,
then it should be parseable as an absolute URI.

=end original

これは uri 属性を取得/設定するために使います。
$val は URI オブジェクトか普通の文字列のどちらかです。
文字列が与えられた場合、絶対 URI として解析できるものでなければなりません。

=item $r->header( $field )

=item $r->header( $field => $value )

=begin original

This is used to get/set header values and it is inherited from
C<HTTP::Headers> via C<HTTP::Message>.  See L<HTTP::Headers> for
details and other similar methods that can be used to access the
headers.

=end original

これはヘッダの値を取得/設定するために使い、これは
C<HTTP::Headers> から C<HTTP::Message> 経由で継承されます。
詳細と、ヘッダにアクセスするために使われる同様のメソッドについては
L<HTTP::Headers> を参照してください。

=item $r->content

=item $r->content( $bytes )

=begin original

This is used to get/set the content and it is inherited from the
C<HTTP::Message> base class.  See L<HTTP::Message> for details and
other methods that can be used to access the content.

=end original

これは内容を取得/設定するために使い、これは C<HTTP::Message> 基底クラスから
継承されます。
詳細と、内容にアクセスするために使われるその他のメソッドについては
L<HTTP::Message> を参照してください。

=begin original

Note that the content should be a string of bytes.  Strings in perl
can contain characters outside the range of a byte.  The C<Encode>
module can be used to turn such strings into a string of bytes.

=end original

内容はバイト列であることに注意してください。
perl での文字列はバイトの範囲外の文字を含むことができます。
C<Encode> モジュールはそのような文字列をバイト列に変換できます。

=item $r->as_string

=item $r->as_string( $eol )

=begin original

Method returning a textual representation of the request.

=end original

リクエストのテキスト形式表現を返します。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTTP::Headers>, L<HTTP::Message>, L<HTTP::Request::Common>,
L<HTTP::Response>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1995-2004 Gisle Aas.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=begin meta

Translated: Hippo2000 <GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp> (5.48)
Updated: Kentaro SHIRAKATA <argrath@ub32.org> (5.813)

=end meta

