=head1 NAME

Net::Server::MultiType - Net::Server personality

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Net::Server::MultiType;
  @ISA = qw(Net::Server::MultiType);

  sub process_request {
     #...code...
  }

  my @types = qw(PreFork Fork Single);

  Net::Server::MultiType->run(server_type=>\@types);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Please read the pod on Net::Server first.  This module is a
personality, or extension, or sub class, of the Net::Server
module.

This personality is intended to allow for easy use of
multiple Net::Server personalities.  Given a list of server
types, Net::Server::MultiType will require one at a time
until it finds one that is installed on the system.  It then
adds that package to its @ISA, thus inheriting the methods
of that personality.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

In addition to the command line arguments of the Net::Server
base class, Net::Server::MultiType contains one other
configurable parameter.

  Key               Value            Default
  server_type       'server_type'    'Single'

=over 4

=item server_type

May be called many times to build up an array or possible
server_types.  At execution, Net::Server::MultiType will
find the first available one and then inherit the methods of
that personality

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

C<Net::Server::MultiType> allows for the use of a
configuration file to read in server parameters.  The format
of this conf file is simple key value pairs.  Comments and
white space are ignored.

  #-------------- file test.conf --------------

  ### multi type info
  ### try PreFork first, then go to Single
  server_type PreFork
  server_type Single

  ### server information
  min_servers   20
  max_servers   80
  spare_servers 10

  max_requests  1000

  ### user and group to become
  user        somebody
  group       everybody

  ### logging ?
  log_file    /var/log/server.log
  log_level   3
  pid_file    /tmp/server.pid

  ### access control
  allow       .+\.(net|com)
  allow       domain\.com
  deny        a.+

  ### background the process?
  background  1

  ### ports to bind
  host        127.0.0.1
  port        localhost:20204
  port        20205

  ### reverse lookups ?
  # reverse_lookups on
 
  #-------------- file test.conf --------------

=head1 PROCESS FLOW

See L<Net::Server>

=head1 HOOKS

There are no additional hooks in Net::Server::MultiType.

=head1 TO DO

See L<Net::Server>

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul T. Seamons paul@seamons.com

=head1 SEE ALSO

Please see also
L<Net::Server::Fork>,
L<Net::Server::INET>,
L<Net::Server::PreFork>,
L<Net::Server::MultiType>,
L<Net::Server::Single>

