
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

perlcommunity - a brief overview of the Perl community

=end original

perlcommunity - Perl コミュニティの概要

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This document aims to provide an overview of the vast perl community, which is
far too large and diverse to provide a detailed listing. If any specific niche
has been forgotten, it is not meant as an insult but an omission for the sake
of brevity.

=end original

この文書は、詳細の一覧を提供するには大きすぎて多様すぎる広大な perl
コミュニティの概要を提供することを目標としています。
特定の分野が忘れられている場合、それは侮辱しているわけではなく簡潔さのために
省略されたものです。

=begin original

The Perl community is as diverse as Perl, and there is a large amount of
evidence that the Perl users apply TMTOWTDI to all endeavors, not just
programming. From websites, to IRC, to mailing lists, there is more than one
way to get involved in the community.

=end original

Perl コミュニティは Perl と同じぐらい多様で、Perl ユーザーが
プログラムだけでなくあらゆる活動に対して TMTOWTDI を提供している大量の証拠が
あります。
web サイトから IRC やメーリングリストまで、コミュニティに関わる方法は
一つではありません。

=head2 Where to find the community

(コミュニティを探す場所)

=begin original

There is a central directory for the Perl community: L<http://perl.org>
maintained by the Perl Foundation (L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/>),
which tracks and provides services for a variety of other community sites.

=end original

Perl コミュニティのためのセンターがあります:
the Perl Foundation (L<http://www.perlfoundation.org/>) によって
管理されている L<http://perl.org> は様々なその他のコミュニティサイトのための
記録とサービスの提供を行っています。

=head2 Mailing lists and Newsgroups

(メーリングリストとニュースグループ)

=begin original

Perl runs on e-mail, there is no doubt about it. The Camel book was originally
written mostly over e-mail and today Perl's development is co-ordinated through
mailing lists. The largest repository of Perl mailing lists is located at
L<http://lists.perl.org>.

=end original

Perl は電子メールで動いています; これに嘘はありません。
ラクダ本はもともとほとんど電子メールで書かれ、現在 Perl の開発はメーリングリストを
通して協調しています。
Perl メーリングリストの最大のレポジトリは L<http://lists.perl.org> に
あります。

=begin original

Most Perl-related projects set up mailing lists for both users and
contributors. If you don't see a certain project listed at
L<http://lists.perl.org>, check the particular website for that project.
Most mailing lists are archived at L<http://nntp.perl.org/>.

=end original

ほとんどの Perl 関連のプロジェクトはユーザー向けと貢献者向け両方の
メーリングリストを設定しています。
特定のプロジェクトが L<http://lists.perl.org> に挙がっていない場合、
そのプロジェクトの特定の web サイトをチェックしています。
ほとんどのメーリングリストは L<http://nntp.perl.org/> に
アーカイブされています。

=begin original

There are also plenty of Perl related newsgroups located under
C<comp.lang.perl.*>.

=end original

また、C<comp.lang.perl.*> 以下に大量の Perl 関連のニュースグループが
あります。

=head2 IRC

=begin original

The Perl community has a rather large IRC presence. For starters, it has its
own IRC network, L<irc://irc.perl.org>. General (not help-oriented) chat can be
found at L<irc://irc.perl.org/#perl>. Many other more specific chats are also
hosted on the network. Information about irc.perl.org is located on the
network's website: L<http://www.irc.perl.org>. For a more help oriented #perl,
check out L<irc://irc.freenode.net/#perl>. Perl 6 development also has a
presence in L<irc://irc.freenode.net/#perl6>. Most Perl-related channels will
be kind enough to point you in the right direction if you ask nicely.

=end original

Perl コミュニティはかなり大きな IRC のプレゼンスがあります。
初心者のためには、独自の IRC ネットワークである L<irc://irc.perl.org> が
あります。
一般的な (ヘルプ指向ではない) チャットは L<irc://irc.perl.org/#perl> に
あります。
その他のより専門的なチャットもネットワーク上にホストされています。
irc.perl.org に関する情報はネットワークの web サイトにあります:
L<http://www.irc.perl.org>。
さらにヘルプ指向の #perl については、L<irc://irc.freenode.net/#perl> を
チェックしてください。
Perl 6 開発は L<irc://irc.freenode.net/#perl6> にあります。
ほとんどの Perl 関連のチャンネルは、うまく訊ねれば正しい方向に向かうのに
十分な程度に親切です。

=begin original

Any large IRC network (Dalnet, EFnet) is also likely to have a #perl channel,
with varying activity levels.

=end original

大きな IRC ネットワーク (Dalnet, EFnet) にもおそらく #perl チャンネルが
ありますが、活発度はさまざまです。

=head2 Websites

(web サイト)

=begin original

Perl websites come in a variety of forms, but they fit into two large
categories: forums and news websites. There are many Perl related
websites, so only a few of the community's largest are mentioned here.

=end original

Perl web サイトにはさまざまな形式のものがありますが、大きく二つのカテゴリに
分けられます: フォーラムとニュース web サイトです。
多くの Perl 関連の web サイトがあるので、ここではコミュニティで
最大のものだけをいくつか言及します。

=head3 News sites

(ニュースサイト)

=over 4

=item L<http://perl.com/>

=begin original

Run by O'Reilly Media (The publisher of L<the Camel Book|perlbook> among other
Perl-related literature), perl.com provides current Perl news, articles, and
resources for Perl developers as well as a directory of other useful websites.

=end original

O'Reilly Media (L<the Camel Book|perlbook> およびその他の Perl 関連の書籍の
出版社) によって運営されている perl.com は現在の Perl ニュース、記事、
Perl 開発者のためのリソースおよびその他の有用な web サイトの一覧を
提供しています。

=item L<http://use.perl.org/>

=begin original

use Perl; provides a slashdot-style Perl news website covering all things Perl,
from minutes of the meetings of the Perl 6 Design team to conference
announcements with (ir)relevant discussion.

=end original

use Perl; はスラッシュドット形式の Perl ニュース web サイトで、Perl 6
デザインチームのミーティングからカンファレンスの案内までの Perl に関する
あらゆることを関連する(しない)議論と共に提供しています。

=back

=head3 Forums

(フォーラム)

=over 4

=item L<http://www.perlmonks.org/>

=begin original

PerlMonks is one of the largest Perl forums, and describes itself as "A place
for individuals to polish, improve, and showcase their Perl skills." and "A
community which allows everyone to grow and learn from each other."

=end original

PerlMonks は最大の Perl フォーラムの一つで、自身を「個々が自らの Perl スキルを
研鑽、向上、披露する場所」で「誰もが互いに成長し学習できるコミュニティ」と
表現しています。

=back

=head2 User Groups

(ユーザーグループ)

=begin original

Many cities around the world have local Perl Mongers chapters. A Perl Mongers
chapter is a local user group which typically holds regular in-person meetings,
both social and technical; helps organize local conferences, workshops, and
hackathons; and provides a mailing list or other continual contact method for
its members to keep in touch.

=end original

世界中の多くの都市にはローカルな Perl Mongers 支部があります。
Perl Mongers 支部は、典型的には社会的技術的双方の定期的なオフライン
ミーティングの開催; ローカルなカンファレンス、ワークショップ、ハッカソンの
開催の補助; メンバーが連絡を保つためのメーリングリストまたはその他の
継続的な連絡手段を提供します。

=begin original

To find your local Perl Mongers (or PM as they're commonly abbreviated) group
check the international Perl Mongers directory at L<http://www.pm.org/>.

=end original

ローカルの Perl Mongers (一般的に PM と略されます) グループを捜すには、
L<http://www.pm.org/> にある the international Perl Mongers directory を
チェックしてください。

=head2 Workshops

(ワークショップ)

=begin original

Perl workshops are, as the name might suggest, workshops where Perl is taught
in a variety of ways. At the workshops, subjects range from a beginner's
introduction (such as the Pittsburgh Perl Workshop's "Zero To Perl") to much
more advanced subjects.

=end original

Perl ワークショップは、名前が示唆しているように、Perl を様々な形で教える
ワークショップです。
ワークショップでは、題材は(Pittsburgh Perl Workshop の
"Zero To Perl" のような)初心者のための導入から、遥かに高度な題材まで幅が
あります。

=begin original

There are several great resources for locating workshops: the
L<websites|"Websites"> mentioned above, the
L<calendar|"Calendar of Perl Events"> mentioned below, and the YAPC Europe
website, L<http://www.yapceurope.org/>, which is probably the best resource for
European Perl events.

=end original

ワークショップを探すための素晴らしいリソースがいくつかあります: 前述した
L<web サイト|"Websites">、後述する L<カレンダー|"Calendar of Perl Events">、
ヨーロッパの Perl イベントに関してはおそらく最良のリソースである
YAPC Europe web サイト L<http://www.yapceurope.org/>。

=head2 Hackathons

(ハッカソン)

=begin original

Hackathons are a very different kind of gathering where Perl hackers gather to
do just that, hack nonstop for an extended (several day) period on a specific
project or projects. Information about hackathons can be located in the same
place as information about L<workshops|"Workshops"> as well as in
L<irc://irc.perl.org/#perl>.

=end original

ハッカソンはかなり異なった種類の集いで、Perl ハッカー達が長い (数日間)
期間特定のプロジェクトに関してノンストップでハックするために集うものです。
ハッカソンに関する情報は L<ワークショップ|"Workshops"> に関する情報と
同じ場所や、L<irc://irc.perl.org/#perl> にあります。

=begin original

If you have never been to a hackathon, here are a few basic things you need to
know before attending: have a working laptop and know how to use it; check out
the involved projects before hand; have the necessary version control client;
and bring backup equipment (an extra LAN cable, additional power strips, etc.)
because someone will forget.

=end original

ハッカソンを行ったことがないなら、参加する前に知っておく必要がある基本的な
ことがいくつかあります: 作業するためのラップトップとその使い方; 参加する
プロジェクトの事前調査; 必要なバージョンコントロールクライアント; 誰かが
忘れたときのための予備の装備 (予備の LAN ケーブル、追加の電源コードなど)。

=head2 Conventions

(コンベンション)

=begin original

Perl has two major annual conventions: The Perl Conference (now part of OSCON),
put on by O'Reilly, and Yet Another Perl Conference or YAPC (pronounced
yap-see), which is localized into several regional YAPCs (North America,
Europe, Asia) in a stunning grassroots display by the Perl community. For more
information about either conference, check out their respective web pages:
OSCON L<http://conferences.oreillynet.com/>; YAPC L<http://www.yapc.org>.

=end original

Perl には二つの主な年次コンベンションがあります
Perl has two major annual conventions: O'Reilly による The Perl Conference
(今では OSCON の一部)と、Perl コミュニティによる驚くべき草の根活動である
Yet Another Perl Conference (YAPC) (yap-see と
発音します)、これはいくつかの地域 YAPC (North America, Europe, Asia) に
地域化されています。
それぞれのカンファレンスに関するさらなる情報は、それぞれの web ページを
チェックしてください:
OSCON L<http://conferences.oreillynet.com/>; YAPC L<http://www.yapc.org>。

=begin original

A relatively new conference franchise with a large Perl portion is the
Open Source Developers Conference or OSDC. First held in Australia it has
recently also spread to Israel and France. More information can be found at:
L<http://www.osdc.com.au/> for Australia, L<http://www.osdc.org.il>
for Israel, and L<http://www.osdc.fr/> for France.

=end original

大きな Perl の部分がある比較的新しいカンファレンスフランチャイズは
Open Source Developers Conference(OSDC) です。
最初にオーストラリアで行われ、最近イスラエルとフランスに広がりました。
さらなる情報は以下にあります: オーストラリアは L<http://www.osdc.com.au/>、
イスラエルは L<http://www.osdc.org.il>、フランスは L<http://www.osdc.fr/>。

=head2 Calendar of Perl Events

(Perl イベントのカレンダー)

=begin original

The Perl Review, L<http://www.theperlreview.com> maintains a website
and Google calendar
(L<http://www.theperlreview.com/community_calendar>) for tracking
workshops, hackathons, Perl Mongers meetings, and other events. Views
of this calendar are at L<http://www.perl.org/events.html> and
L<http://www.yapc.org>.

=end original

The Perl Review, L<http://www.theperlreview.com> は、ワークショップ、
ハッカソン、Perl Mongers ミーティング、その他のイベントを記録するための
web サイトと Google カレンダー
(L<http://www.theperlreview.com/community_calendar>) を管理しています。
このカレンダーは L<http://www.perl.org/events.html> と
L<http://www.yapc.org> で見られます。

=begin original

Not every event or Perl Mongers group is on that calendar, so don't lose
heart if you don't see yours posted. To have your event or group listed,
contact brian d foy (brian@theperlreview.com).

=end original

全てのイベントや Perl Mongers グループがこのカレンダーにあるわけでは
ないですが、あなたが投稿したものがなくてもがっかりしないでください。
イベントやグループを一覧に載せるには、brian d foy
(brian@theperlreview.com) に連絡してください。

=head1 AUTHOR

Edgar "Trizor" Bering <trizor@gmail.com>

=begin meta

Translate: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org>
Status: completed

=end meta

=cut

