=pod

=head1 NAME

Email::Sender::Transport::Test - deliver mail in memory for testing

=head1 VERSION

version 0.093380

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This transport is meant for testing email deliveries in memory.  It will store
a record of any delivery made so that they can be inspected afterward.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 deliveries

=for Pod::Coverage recipient_failure delivery_failure

By default, the Test transport will not allow partial success and will always
succeed.  It can be made to fail predictably, however, if it is extended and
its C<recipient_failure> or C<delivery_failure> methods are overridden.  These
methods are called as follows:

  $self->delivery_failure($email, $envelope);

  $self->recipient_failure($to);

If they return true, the sending will fail.  If the transport was created with
a true C<allow_partial_success> attribute, recipient failures can cause partial
success to be returned.

For more flexible failure modes, you can override more aggressively or can use
L<Email::Sender::Transport::Failable>.

=for Pod::Coverage clear_deliveries

This attribute stores an arrayref of all the deliveries made via the transport.
It can be emptied by calling C<clear_deliveries>.

Each delivery is a hashref, in the following format:

  {
    email     => $email,
    envelope  => $envelope,
    successes => \@ok_rcpts,
    failures  => \@failures,
  }

Both successful and failed deliveries are stored.

=head1 AUTHOR

  Ricardo Signes <rjbs@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2009 by Ricardo Signes.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.


=cut

