=head1 NAME

POE::Component - a POE servlet class

POE::Component - POEのサーブレットクラス

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Varies from component to component.

コンポーネントによって様々に異なります。

=head1 DESCRIPTION

POE components are event-driven modules, many of which act as little
daemons that supply services to the programs they're parts of.  In
general, they talk with other sessions by receiving and posting
events, but this is not a formal convention.  A component's interface
design should prefer to make sense; for example, an SMTP client should
have a method to just "send a message" rather than (or in addition to)
several others that deal with the intricacies of the SMTP protocol.

POEコンポーネントはイベントドリブンのモジュールで、その多くは小さなデー
モンとして動き、それらが一部を成すプログラムへサービスを提供します。一
般的には、それらはイベントを受信し通知することによって他のセッションと
通信しますが、これは正式な約束事ではありません。コンポーネントのインタ
ーフェースの設計は理に適ったものを選ぶべきです。例えば、SMTPクライアン
トは複雑なSMTPプロトコルを取り扱ういくつものメソッドではなくて(あるいは
それとは別に)単に"メッセージを送信する"メソッドを持つべきです。

The POE::Component namespace was started as place for contributors to
publish their POE-based modules without requiring coordination with
the main POE distribution.

POE::Componentという名前空間はメインのPOEディストリビューションと協調す
る必要無しにPOEベースのモジュールを公開する場所として始まりました。

=head1 SEE ALSO

The SEE ALSO section in L<POE> contains a table of contents covering
the entire POE distribution.

L<POE>のSEE ALSOセクションがPOEのディストリビューション全体をカバーする
目次を含んでいます。

=head1 TO DO

Document the customary (but not mandatory!) process of creating and
publishing a component.

コンポーネントを作成し公開する作業の慣例集(しかし強制的ではありません!)
をドキュメント化すること。

=head1 AUTHORS & COPYRIGHTS

Each component is written and copyrighted by its author.

それぞれのコンポーネントはその作者によって書かれ、著作権はその作者に帰
属します。

Please see L<POE> for more information about authors and contributors.

作者と貢献者についての詳しい情報はL<POE>を参照してください。

=head1 Translators

井上 謙次 <deq@oct.zaq.ne.jp>
