
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

URI::Split - Parse and compose URI strings

=end original

URI::Split - URI 文字列をパースおよび構成する

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use URI::Split qw(uri_split uri_join);
 ($scheme, $auth, $path, $query, $frag) = uri_split($uri);
 $uri = uri_join($scheme, $auth, $path, $query, $frag);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

Provides functions to parse and compose URI
strings.  The following functions are provided:

=end original

URI 文字列のパースおよび構成を行う関数を提供します。
次の関数が提供されます:

=over

=item ($scheme, $auth, $path, $query, $frag) = uri_split($uri)

=begin original

Breaks up a URI string into its component
parts.  An C<undef> value is returned for those parts that are not
present.  The $path part is always present (but can be the empty
string) and is thus never returned as C<undef>.

=end original

URI 文字列を構成要素に分解します。
要素がない部分に対しては C<undef> が返されます。
$path 部分は常に存在する (但し空文字列のことはあります) ので、
C<undef> を返すことはありません。

=begin original

No sensible value is returned if this function is called in a scalar
context.

=end original

この関数がスカラコンテキストで呼び出されると、
特に意味のある値は返しません。

=item $uri = uri_join($scheme, $auth, $path, $query, $frag)

=begin original

Puts together a URI string from its parts.
Missing parts are signaled by passing C<undef> for the corresponding
argument.

=end original

URI の要素から文字列を作り上げます。
存在しない部分に対しては、対応する引数として C<undef> を渡すことで示します。

=begin original

Minimal escaping is applied to parts that contain reserved chars
that would confuse a parser.  For instance, any occurrence of '?' or '#'
in $path is always escaped, as it would otherwise be parsed back
as a query or fragment.

=end original

パーサを混乱させる予約文字を含む部分には最小限のエスケープが行われます。
例えば、$path にある '?' や '#' は常にエスケープされます;
さもなければクエリやフラグメントとしてパースされるかもしれないからです。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<URI>, L<URI::Escape>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003, Gisle Aas

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=begin meta

Translate: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org> (1.35-)
Status: completed

=end meta

=cut

