
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

open - perl pragma to set default PerlIO layers for input and output

open - 入出力のためにデフォルトのPerlIOレイヤセットするためのPerlのプラグマ


=head1 概要

    use open IN  => ":crlf", OUT => ":bytes";
    use open OUT => ':utf8';
    use open IO  => ":encoding(iso-8859-7)";

    use open IO  => ':locale';

    use open ':utf8';
    use open ':locale';
    use open ':encoding(iso-8859-7)';

    use open ':std';

=head1 説明

Full-fledged support for I/O layers is now implemented provided
Perl is configured to use PerlIO as its IO system (which is now the
default).

I/Oレイヤの徹底したサポートが現在実装され、提供されています。
PerlはそのIOシステムとしてPerlIOを使っています(現在、PerlIOはデフォルトです)。

The C<open> pragma serves as one of the interfaces to declare default
"layers" (also known as "disciplines") for all I/O. Any two-argument
open(), readpipe() (aka qx//) and similar operators found within the
lexical scope of this pragma will use the declared defaults.
Three-argument opens are not affected by this pragma since there you
(can) explicitly specify the layers and are supposed to know what you
are doing.

C<open>プラグマは全てのI/Oのデフォルトの"レイヤ"("disciplines"としても知られています)
へのインターフェースの一つとしての役目をします。
このプラグマのレキシカルコープ内の、全ての二つの引数を取る、open()、 readpipe()(qx// としても知られる)、
それらと類似のオペレータは、宣言されたデフォルトを使うようになります。
三つの引数を取るopenなどは、明示的にレイヤを指定する(ことができる)ため、
自分がすることをわかっていると仮定するので、このプラグマは影響しません。

With the C<IN> subpragma you can declare the default layers
of input streams, and with the C<OUT> subpragma you can declare
the default layers of output streams.  With the C<IO>  subpragma
you can control both input and output streams simultaneously.

C<IN>サブプラグマで入力ストリームのデフォルトのレイヤを宣言できます。
C<OUT>サブプラグマで出力ストリームのデフォルトのレイヤを宣言できます。
C<IO>サブプラグマで入出力ストリームの両方を同時に制御できます。

If you have a legacy encoding, you can use the C<:encoding(...)> tag.

レガシーのエンコーディングの場合、C<:encoding(...)>タグが使えます。

if you want to set your encoding layers based on your
locale environment variables, you can use the C<:locale> tag.
For example:

ロケールの環境変数でエンコーディングレイヤをセットするならば、C<:locale>タグを使えます。
例:

    $ENV{LANG} = 'ru_RU.KOI8-R';
    # the :locale will probe the locale environment variables like LANG
    use open OUT => ':locale';
    open(O, ">koi8");
    print O chr(0x430); # Unicode CYRILLIC SMALL LETTER A = KOI8-R 0xc1
    close O;
    open(I, "<koi8");
    printf "%#x\n", ord(<I>), "\n"; # this should print 0xc1
    close I;

These are equivalent

次のものは同じです。

    use open ':utf8';
    use open IO => ':utf8';

as are these

これも同じです。

    use open ':locale';
    use open IO => ':locale';

and these

こちらも同じです。

    use open ':encoding(iso-8859-7)';
    use open IO => ':encoding(iso-8859-7)';

The matching of encoding names is loose: case does not matter, and
many encodings have several aliases.  See L<Encode::Supported> for
details and the list of supported locales.

エンコーディング名のマッチングはゆるいです:大文字小文字は問題になりませんし、
多くのエンコーディングに複数のエイリアスがあります。
詳細とサポートされているロケールのリストは、L<Encode::Supported>にあります。

Note that C<:utf8> PerlIO layer must always be specified exactly like
that, it is not subject to the loose matching of encoding names.

次のことに注意して下さい。
C<:utf8> PerlIOレイヤは、常に厳密に指定されなければいけません。
これについてはエンコーディング名のゆるいマッチングの対象になっていません。

When open() is given an explicit list of layers they are appended to
the list declared using this pragma.

open()に明示的なレイヤのリストが与えられた場合、
それらはこのプラグマを使って宣言されたリストに加えられます。

The C<:std> subpragma on its own has no effect, but if combined with
the C<:utf8> or C<:encoding> subpragmas, it converts the standard
filehandles (STDIN, STDOUT, STDERR) to comply with encoding selected
for input/output handles.  For example, if both input and out are
chosen to be C<:utf8>, a C<:std> will mean that STDIN, STDOUT, and
STDERR are also in C<:utf8>.  On the other hand, if only output is
chosen to be in C<< :encoding(koi8r) >>, a C<:std> will cause only the
STDOUT and STDERR to be in C<koi8r>.  The C<:locale> subpragma
implicitly turns on C<:std>.

C<:std>サブプラグマはそれ自身は何もしません。
ですが、C<:utf8>かC<:encoding>サブプラグマと組み合わせた場合、
それは、標準のファイルハンドル(STDIN, STDOUT, STDERR)を
input/output ハンドルで選ばれたエンコーディングに従うように変換します。
一方で、出力だけC<< :encoding(koi8r) >>であるように選ばれたなら、
C<:std>は、STDOUTとSTDERRだけがC<koi8r>になるようになります。
C<:locale>サブプラグマは暗にC<:std>をつけています。
(訳注:組み合わせるというのは、use open ":utf8"; などの後に、 use open ":std" するということです)

The logic of C<:locale> is as follows:

C<:locale>のロジックは下記のようになっています:

=over 4

=item 1.

If the platform supports the langinfo(CODESET) interface, the codeset
returned is used as the default encoding for the open pragma.

プラットフォームがlanginfo(CODESET)インターフェースをサポートするなら、
コードセットは、open プラグマのデフォルトのエンコーディングとして使われます。

=item 2.

If 1. didn't work but we are under the locale pragma, the environment
variables LC_ALL and LANG (in that order) are matched for encodings
(the part after C<.>, if any), and if any found, that is used 
as the default encoding for the open pragma.

1. がうまくいかないないが、localeプラグマのもとで、
環境変数LC_ALLとLANGが(この順番で)エンコーディング(the part after C<.>, if any)にマッチし、
見つかったなら、open プラグマのデフォルトのエンコーディングとして使われます。

=item 3.

If 1. and 2. didn't work, the environment variables LC_ALL and LANG
(in that order) are matched for anything looking like UTF-8, and if
any found, C<:utf8> is used as the default encoding for the open
pragma.

1. と 2. がうまくいかず、環境変数LC_ALLとLANG(がこの順で)UTF-8にみえるものにマッチし、
見つかったなら、C<:utf8>がopen プラグマのでふぉるｔのエンコーディングとして使われます。

=back

If your locale environment variables (LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG)
contain the strings 'UTF-8' or 'UTF8' (case-insensitive matching),
the default encoding of your STDIN, STDOUT, and STDERR, and of
B<any subsequent file open>, is UTF-8.

ロケール環境変数(LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LANG)が、'UTF-8' か 'UTF8'(大文字小文字問わず) を
含むなら、STDIN、STDOUT、STDERR、どんなファイルのopenのデフォルトのエンコーディングは、
UTF-8になります。

Directory handles may also support PerlIO layers in the future.

将来は、ディレクトリハンドルも、PerlIOレイヤがサポートされるかもしれません。

=head1 非NPERLIO 機能

If Perl is not built to use PerlIO as its IO system then only the two
pseudo-layers C<:bytes> and C<:crlf> are available.

PerlがIOシステムとしてPerlIOを使うようにビルドされていなくても、
二つの仮のレイヤC<:bytes>とC<:crlf>が利用可能です。

The C<:bytes> layer corresponds to "binary mode" and the C<:crlf>
layer corresponds to "text mode" on platforms that distinguish
between the two modes when opening files (which is many DOS-like
platforms, including Windows).  These two layers are no-ops on
platforms where binmode() is a no-op, but perform their functions
everywhere if PerlIO is enabled.

"バイナリモード"と"テキストモード"の二つのモードを区別するプラットフォーム(多くのDOSのような(Windowsを含む)プラットフォーム)上で、
ファイルを開くときに、C<:bytes> レイヤは、"バイナリモード"に対応し、C<:crlf>レイヤは、"テキストモード"に対応します。
binmode()が操作不能なプラットフォームでは、これらの二つのレイヤは操作不能です。
ですが、PerlIOが有効ならば、この機能はどこでも動きます。

=head1 実装の詳細

There is a class method in C<PerlIO::Layer> C<find> which is
implemented as XS code.  It is called by C<import> to validate the
layers:

C<PerlIO::Layer> に クラスメソッドがあります。
C<find> は、XS のコードで実装されています。
C<find>は、C<import>で呼ばれて、レイヤが有効か確認します。

   PerlIO::Layer::->find("perlio")

The return value (if defined) is a Perl object, of class
C<PerlIO::Layer> which is created by the C code in F<perlio.c>.  As
yet there is nothing useful you can do with the object at the perl
level.

返値は(定義されていれば)Perl オブジェクトです。
F<perlio.c>のCのコードで作られたクラス C<PerlIO::Layer>のものです。
今のところ、perl レベルのオブジェクトでできる有益なことは何もありません。

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perlfunc/"binmode">, L<perlfunc/"open">, L<perlunicode>, L<PerlIO>,
L<encoding>

=head1 翻訳について

翻訳者：加藤敦 (ktat.is@gmail.com)

Perlドキュメント日本語訳 Project にて、
Perlモジュール、ドキュメントの翻訳を行っております。

 http://perldocjp.sourceforge.jp
 http://sourceforge.jp/projects/perldocjp/
 http://www.freeml.com/ctrl/html/MLInfoForm/perldocjp@freeml.com
 http://www.perldoc.jp
