
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

POE::Component::Server::TCP - a simplified TCP server

POE::Component::Server::TCP - 単純化されたTCPサーバ

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use POE qw(Component::Server::TCP);

  # 第一の形式は接続を単にacceptします。

  POE::Component::Server::TCP->new
    ( Port     => $bind_port,
      Address  => $bind_address,    # オプショナル。
      Domain   => AF_INET,          # オプショナル。
      Alias    => $session_alias,   # オプショナル。
      Acceptor => \&accept_handler,
      Error    => \&error_handler,  # オプショナル。
    );

  # 第二の形式は接続をacceptし処理します。

  POE::Component::Server::TCP->new
    ( Port     => $bind_port,
      Address  => $bind_address,      # オプショナル。
      Domain   => AF_INET,            # オプショナル。
      Alias    => $session_alias,     # オプショナル。
      Acceptor => \&accept_handler,   # オプショナル。
      Error    => \&error_handler,    # オプショナル。
      Args     => [ "arg0", "arg1" ], # オプショナル。

      SessionType   => "POE::Session::Abc",           # オプショナル。
      SessionParams => [ options => { debug => 1 } ], # オプショナル。

      ClientInput        => \&handle_client_input,      # 必須。
      ClientConnected    => \&handle_client_connect,    # オプショナル。
      ClientDisconnected => \&handle_client_disconnect, # オプショナル。
      ClientError        => \&handle_client_error,      # オプショナル。
      ClientFlushed      => \&handle_client_flush,      # オプショナル。
      ClientFilter       => "POE::Filter::Xyz",         # オプショナル。
      ClientShutdownOnError => 0,                       # オプショナル。

      # オプショナルでクライアントセッション用に他の状態を定義。
      InlineStates  => { ... },
      PackageStates => [ ... ],
      ObjectStates  => [ ... ],
    );

  # ハンドラ用の呼び出しのシグネチャ。

  sub accept_handler {
    my ($socket, $remote_address, $remote_port) = @_[ARG0, ARG1, ARG2];
  }

  sub error_handler {
    my ($syscall_name, $error_number, $error_string) = @_[ARG0, ARG1, ARG2];
  }

  sub handle_client_input {
    my $input_record = $_[ARG0];
  }

  sub handle_client_error {
    my ($syscall_name, $error_number, $error_string) = @_[ARG0, ARG1, ARG2];
  }

  sub handle_client_connect {
    # 特別な引数は無し。
  }

  sub handle_client_disconnect {
    # 特別な引数は無し。
  }

  sub handle_client_flush {
    # 特別な引数は無し。
  }

  # 予約済みのHEAP変数:

  $heap->{listener}    = SocketFactory (AcceptorとErrorのコールバックのみ)
  $heap->{client}      = ReadWrite     (ClientXyzのコールバック内のみ)
  $heap->{remote_ip}   = ドット区切り表記のリモートIPアドレス
  $heap->{remote_port} = リモートポート
  $heap->{remote_addr} = packされたリモートのアドレスとポート
  $heap->{shutdown}    = 停止フラグ    (停止しようとしているかどうかの確認)
  $heap->{shutdown_on_error} = エラー発生時に自動的に切断。

  # 受け付けられるパブリックイベント。

  $kernel->yield( "shutdown" )           # 接続内で停止を開始
  $kernel->post( server => "shutdown" )  # 接続のlistenを停止

  # クライアントへの応答。

  $heap->{client}->put(@things_to_send);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The TCP server component hides the steps needed to create a server
using Wheel::SocketFactory.  The steps aren't many, but they're still
tiresome after a while.

TCPサーバコンポーネントはWheel::SocketFactoryを使用したサーバを作成する
ために必要なステップを隠します。そのステップは多くはありませんが、それ
でもやはりしばらくすると退屈になります。

POE::Component::Server::TCP supplies common defaults for most
callbacks and handlers.  The authors hope that servers can be created
with as little work as possible.

POE::Component::Server::TCPはほとんどのコールバックとハンドラに一般的な
デフォルトを提供します。作者は可能な限り少ない作業でサーバを作成できる
ことを期待します。

Constructor parameters:

コンストラクタの引数は以下の通りです。

=over 2

=item Acceptor

Acceptor is a coderef which will be called to handle accepted sockets.
The coderef receives its parameters directly from SocketFactory's
SuccessEvent.  ARG0 is the accepted socket handle, suitable for giving
to a ReadWrite wheel.  ARG1 and ARG2 contain the packed remote address
and numeric port, respectively.  ARG3 is the SocketFactory wheel's ID.

Acceptorはacceptされたソケットを扱うために呼ばれるコードリファレンスで
す。そのコードリファレンスは直接SocketFactoryのSuccessEventから引数を受
け取ります。ARG0はacceptされたソケットハンドルで、ReadWriteホイールに与
えるのに適切です。ARG1とARG2はそれぞれpackされたリモートアドレスとポー
ト番号を含みます。ARG3はSocketFactoryホイールのIDです。

  Acceptor => \&accept_handler

Acceptor lets programmers rewrite the guts of Server::TCP entirely.
It disables the code that provides the /Client.*/ callbacks.

AcceptorはプログラマがServer::TCPの中身を完全に書き換えることを許します。
これは/Client.*/コールバックを提供するコードを無効にします。

=item Address

Address is the optional interface address the TCP server will bind to.
It defaults to INADDR_ANY or INADDR6_ANY when using IPv4 or IPv6,
respectively.

AddressはTCPサーバが割り当てるインターフェースのアドレスで、オプショナ
ルです。IPv4またはIPv6を使用しているときはそれぞれINADDR_ANYまたは
INADDR6_ANYがデフォルトになります。

  Address => '127.0.0.1'   # Localhost IPv4
  Address => "::1"         # Localhost IPv6

It's passed directly to SocketFactory's BindAddress parameter, so it
can be in whatever form SocketFactory supports.  At the time of this
writing, that's a dotted quad, an IPv6 address, a host name, or a
packed Internet address.

これは直接SocketFactoryのBindAddress引数に渡されるので、SocketFactoryが
サポートしているどんな形式でも構いません。これを書いている時点では、そ
れはドット区切り表記、IPv6アドレス、ホスト名、packされたインターネット
アドレスです。

=item Alias

Alias is an optional name by which this server may be referenced.
It's used to pass events to a TCP server from other sessions.

Aliasはオプショナルの名前で、その名前によってこのサーバが参照されうるも
のです。これは他のセッションからTCPサーバにイベントを渡すために使われま
す。

  Alias => 'chargen'

Later on, the 'chargen' service can be shut down with:

その後、'chargen'サービスは以下のように停止することができます。

  $kernel->post( chargen => 'shutdown' );

=item SessionType

SessionType specifies what type of sessions will be created within
the TCP server.  It must be a scalar value.

SessionTypeはTCPサーバ内で生成されるセッションのタイプを指定します。こ
れはスカラ値でなければなりません。

  SessionType => "POE::Session::MultiDispatch"

SessionType is optional.  The component will supply a "POE::Session"
type if none is specified.

SessionTypeはオプショナルです。もし何も指定されなければコンポーネントは
"POE::Session"タイプを提供するでしょう。

=item SessionParams

Initialize parameters to be passed to the SessionType when it is created.
This must be an array reference.

SessionTypeを生成したときに渡される初期化引数。これは配列リファレンスで
なければなりません。

  SessionParams => [ options => { debug => 1, trace => 1 } ],

It is important to realize that some of the arguments to SessionHandler
may get clobbered when defining them for your SessionHandler.  It is
advised that you stick to defining arguments in the "options" hash such
as trace and debug. See L<POE::Session> for an example list of options.

SessionHandlerへの引数のいくつかはあなたのSessionHandlerに定義するとき
に破壊されてしまうかもしれないことを知っておくことは重要です。トレース
やデバッグのような"オプション"ハッシュ内で定義用引数を守っておくことを
考慮してください。オプションの例の一覧についてはL<POE::Session>を参照し
てください。

=item ClientConnected

ClientConnected is a coderef that will be called for each new client
connection.  ClientConnected callbacks receive the usual POE
parameters, but nothing special is included.

ClientConnectedは新しいクライアント接続の度に呼ばれるコードリファレンス
です。ClientConnectedコールバックは通常のPOEの引数を受け取りますが、特
別なものは何も含まれません。

=item ClientDisconnected

ClientDisconnected is a coderef that will be called for each client
that disconnects.  ClientDisconnected callbacks receive the usual POE
parameters, but nothing special is included.

ClientDisconnectedはクライアントが切断する度に呼ばれるコードリファレン
スです。ClientDisconnectedコールバックは通常のPOEの引数を受け取りますが、
特別なものは何も含まれません。

=item ClientError

ClientError is a coderef that will be called whenever an error occurs
on a socket.  It receives the usual error handler parameters: ARG0 is
the name of the function that failed.  ARG1 is the numeric failure
code ($! in numeric context).  ARG2 is the string failure code ($! in
string context).

ClientErrorはソケットでエラーが発生したときはいつでも呼ばれるコードリフ
ァレンスです。これは通常のエラーハンドラの引数を受け取ります。ARG0は失
敗した関数の名前です。ARG1は数字の失敗コード(数値コンテキストでの$!)で
す。ARG2は文字列の失敗コード(文字列コンテキストでの$!)です。

If ClientError is omitted, a default one will be provided.  The
default error handler logs the error to STDERR and closes the
connection.

もしClientErrorが省略された場合、デフォルトのものが用意されます。デフォ
ルトのエラーハンドラはSTDERRにエラーログを出力し接続を閉じます。

=item ClientFilter

ClientFilter specifies the type of filter that will parse input from
each client.  It may either be a scalar or a list reference.  If it is
a scalar, it will contain a POE::Filter class name.  If it is a list
reference, the first item in the list will be a POE::Filter class
name, and the remaining items will be constructor parameters for the
filter.  For example, this changes the line separator to a vertical
bar:

ClientFilterは各クライアントからの入力をパースするフィルタのタイプを指
定します。スカラでもリストリファレンスでもかまいません。もしスカラであ
れば、それはPOE::Filterのクラス名を含むでしょう。もしリストリファレンス
であれば、リストの最初の項目はPOE::Filterのクラス名であり、残りの項目は
そのフィルタへのコンストラクタ引数でしょう。例えば、これはラインセパレ
ータを縦線に変更します。

  ClientFilter => [ "POE::Filter::Line", InputLiteral => "|" ],

ClientFilter is optional.  The component will supply a
"POE::Filter::Line" instance if none is specified.

ClientFilterはオプショナルです。もし何も指定されなければコンポーネント
は"POE::Filter::Line"インスタンスを提供するでしょう。

=item ClientInput

ClientInput is a coderef that will be called to handle client input.
The callback receives its parameters directly from ReadWrite's
InputEvent.  ARG0 is the input record, and ARG1 is the wheel's unique
ID.

ClientInputはクライアントの入力を扱うために呼ばれるコードリファレンスで
す。そのコードリファレンスは直接ReadWriteのInputEventから引数を受け取り
ます。ARG0は入力レコードで、ARG1はホイールの一意的なIDです。

  ClientInput => \&input_handler

ClientInput and Acceptor are mutually exclusive.  Enabling one
prohibits the other.

ClientInputとAcceptorは互いに排他的です。片方を有効にするともう一方が禁
止されます。

=item ClientShutdownOnError => BOOLEAN

ClientShutdownOnError is a boolean value that determines whether
client sessions shut down automatically on errors.  The default value
is 1 (true).  Setting it to 0 or undef (false) turns this off.

ClientShutdownOnErrorはクライアントセッションがエラー発生時に自動的に停
止するかどうかを決定するブール値です。デフォルト値は1(真)です。これを0
かundef(偽)に設定すると機能が働かなくなります。

If client shutdown-on-error is turned off, it becomes your
responsibility to deal with client errors properly.  Not handling
them, or not closing wheels when they should be, will cause the
component to spit out a constant stream of errors, eventually bogging
down your application with dead connections that spin out of control.

もしクライアントのエラー発生時停止機能が働かない場合、クライアントのエ
ラーを適切に対処する責任はあなたにあることになります。それらを処理しな
い、あるいはホイールを閉じるべきときに閉じないということは、コンポーネ
ントが絶えずエラーを吐き出す原因になり、いずれは制御不能の死んだ接続の
ためにアプリケーションは動きを取れなくなるでしょう。

=item Domain

Specifies the domain within which communication will take place.  It
selects the protocol family which should be used.  Currently supported
values are AF_INET, AF_INET6, PF_INET or PF_INET6.  This parameter is
optional and will default to AF_INET if omitted.

通信が行われるドメインを指定します。使用されるべきプロトコルファミリを
選択します。現在サポートされている値はAF_INET、AF_INET6、PF_INET、
PF_INET6です。この引数はオプショナルで、省略された場合はAF_INETがデフォ
ルトになります。

Note: AF_INET6 and PF_INET6 are supplied by the Socket6 module, which
is available on the CPAN.  You must have Socket6 loaded before
POE::Component::Server::TCP will create IPv6 sockets.

注意: AF_INET6とPF_INET6はCPANで入手可能なSocket6モジュールによって提供
されます。POE::Component::Client::TCPがIPv6ソケットを生成する前に
Socket6をロードしておかなければなりません。

=item Error

Error is an optional coderef which will be called to handle server
socket errors.  The coderef is used as POE::Wheel::SocketFactory's
FailureEvent, so it accepts the same parameters.  If it is omitted, a
default error handler will be provided.  The default handler will log
the error to STDERR and shut down the server.

Errorはサーバのソケットエラーを扱うために呼ばれるコードリファレンスで、
オプショナルです。そのコードリファレンスはPOE::Wheel::SocketFactoryの
FailureEventとし使われるので、同じ引数を受け付けます。もしこれが省略さ
れた場合、デフォルトのエラーハンドラが用意されます。デフォルトのハンド
ラはSTDERRにエラーログを出力しサーバを停止します。

=item InlineStates

InlineStates holds a hashref of inline coderefs to handle events.  The
hashref is keyed on event name.  For more information, see
POE::Session's create() method.

InlineStatesはイベントを扱うためにインラインコードリファレンスのハッシ
ュリファレンスを保持します。そのハッシュリファレンスはイベント名のキー
を持ちます。より詳しい情報については、POE::Sessionのcreate()メソッドを
参照してください。

=item ObjectStates

ObjectStates holds a list reference of objects and the events they
handle.  For more information, see POE::Session's create() method.

ObjectStatesはオブジェクトとそれらが扱うイベントのリストリファレンスを
保持します。より詳しい情報については、POE::Sessionのcreate()メソッドを
参照してください。

=item PackageStates

PackageStates holds a list reference of Perl package names and the
events they handle.  For more information, see POE::Session's create()
method.

PackageStatesはPerlのパッケージ名とそれらが扱うイベントのリストリファレ
ンスを保持します。より詳しい情報については、POE::Sessionのcreate()メソ
ッドを参照してください。

=item Args LISTREF

Args passes the contents of a LISTREF to the ClientConnected callback via
@_[ARG0..$#_].  It allows you to pass extra information to the session
created to handle the client connection.

ArgsはLISTREFの内容を@_[ARG0..$#_]を通してClientConnectedコールバックに
渡します。これはクライアントコネクションを扱うために生成されたセッショ
ンに特別な情報を渡すことを可能にします。

=item Port

Port is the port the listening socket will be bound to.  It defaults
to INADDR_ANY, which usually lets the operating system pick a port.

  Port => 30023

Portはlistenするソケットが割り当てられるポートです。デフォルトは
INADDR_ANYで、これは普通オペレーティングシステムにポートを選ばせます。

=back

=head1 EVENTS

It's possible to manipulate a TCP server component from some other
session.  This is useful for shutting them down, and little else so
far.

他のセッションからTCPサーバコンポーネントを操作することが可能です。これ
はそれらを停止させるのに有用ですが、今のところ他にはほとんどありません。

=over 2

=item shutdown

Shuts down the TCP server.  This entails destroying the SocketFactory
that's listening for connections and removing the TCP server's alias,
if one is set.

TCPサーバを停止します。これは必然的に接続をlistenしているSocketFactory
をデストロイし、もし設定されていればTCPサーバのエイリアスを削除すること
を伴います。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

POE::Component::Client::TCP, POE::Wheel::SocketFactory,
POE::Wheel::ReadWrite, POE::Filter

=head1 CAVEATS

This is not suitable for complex tasks.  For example, you cannot
engage in a challenge-response with the client-- you can only reply to
the one message a client sends.

これは複雑な仕事には適切ではありません。例えば、クライアントとチャレン
ジ-レスポンスに携わることができません。クライアントが送信する一つのメッ
セージに対して応答することしかできないからです。

=head1 BUGS

This looks nothing like what Ann envisioned.

これはAnnが構想したものとは全く似ていないように見えます。

This component currently does not accept many of the options that
POE::Wheel::SocketFactory does.

このコンポーネントは現在POE::Wheel::SocketFactoryが受け付けるオプション
の多くを受け付けません。

This component will not bind to several addresses.  This may be a
limitation in SocketFactory.

このコンポーネントは複数のアドレスに割り当てません。これはSocketFactory
の制限かもしれません。

This component needs more complex error handling which appends for
construction errors and replaces for runtime errors, instead of
replacing for all.

このコンポーネントは、全てに対して置換をするのではなく、コンストラクシ
ョンエラーに対して付加したり実行時エラーに対して置換したりする、より複
雑なエラー処理を必要としています。

=head1 AUTHORS & COPYRIGHTS

POE::Component::Server::TCP is Copyright 2000-2001 by Rocco Caputo.
All rights are reserved.  POE::Component::Server::TCP is free
software, and it may be redistributed and/or modified under the same
terms as Perl itself.

POE::Component::Server::TCP is based on code, used with permission,
from Ann Barcomb E<lt>kudra@domaintje.comE<gt>.

POE::Component::Server::TCP is based on code, used with permission,
from Jos Boumans E<lt>kane@cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 Translators

井上 謙次 <deq@oct.zaq.ne.jp>
