=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

=begin original

Test::SharedFork - fork test

=end original

Test::SharedFork - fork(2) をテストの中でつかえるようにする

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Test::More tests => 200;
    use Test::SharedFork;

    my $pid = fork();
    if ($pid == 0) {
        # child
        ok 1, "child $_" for 1..100;
    } elsif ($pid) {
        # parent
        ok 1, "parent $_" for 1..100;
        waitpid($pid, 0);
    } else {
        die $!;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

Test::SharedFork is utility module for Test::Builder.
This module makes forking test!

This module merges test count with parent process & child process.

=end original

Test::SharedFork は L<Test::Builder> のためのユーティリティです。
通常、テストの途中で L<fork(2)> すると、テストの番号の順番がおかしくなってしまいますが、このモジュールはそれを防ぎます。

=begin original

=head1 USAGE

Just put C<< use Test::SharedFork; >> in the head of your test case.

=end original

テストの先頭に C<< use Test::SharedFork; >> と書くだけでよいです。

=begin original

=head1 LIMITATIONS

This version of the Test::SharedFork does not support ithreads, because L<threads::shared> conflicts with L<Storable>.

=back

=head1 制限事項

このバージョンの Test::SharedFork は ithreads に対応していません。Storalbe と threads::shared の食い合わせがわるいためです。

=head1 AUTHOR

Tokuhiro Matsuno E<lt>tokuhirom  slkjfd gmail.comE<gt>

yappo

=head1 THANKS TO

kazuhooku

konbuizm

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Test::TCP>, L<Test::Fork>, L<Test::MultipleFork>

=head1 LICENSE

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
