
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

Net::Server::Multiplex - Multiplex several connections within one process

=end original

Net::Server::Multiplex - 一つのプロセス内の多重化接続

=head1 概要

  package MyPlexer;

  use base 'Net::Server::Multiplex';

  sub mux_input {
     #...コード...
  }

  __PACKAGE__->run();

=head1 説明

=begin original

This personality is designed to handle multiple connections
all within one process.  It should only be used with protocols
that are guaranteed to be able to respond quickly on a packet
by packet basis.  If determining a response could take a while
or an unknown period of time, all other connections established
will block until the response completes.  If this condition
might ever occur, this personality should probably not be used.

=end original

このパーソナリティは、一つのプロセスで複数接続全てを処理する
ように設計されている。パケットベースで素早い応答が可能である
ことを保証しているプロトコルを伴う場合にのみ、このモジュールを
使用するべきである。あるレスポンスを決定するのにしばらく
かかる、あるいはどのくらいかかるのかわからない場合、既に確立
された全ての接続は、そのレスポンスが完了するまでブロックする。
この状況が発生するようなら、このパーソナリティは恐らく使うべき
ではない。

=begin original

This takes some nice features of Net::Server (like the server
listen socket setup, configuration file processing, safe signal
handling, convenient inet style STDIN/STDOUT handling, logging
features, deamonization and pid tracking, and restartability
-SIGHUP) and some nice features of IO::Multiplex (automatic
buffered IO and per-file-handle objects) and combines them for
an easy-to-use interace.

=end original

このモジュールはNet::Serverの優れた特徴（ソケット立ち上げ、
設定ファイルの処理、安全なシグナル処理、便利なinetスタイルの
STDIN/STDOUT処理、ログの記録、デーモン化とpidの追跡、
そして再起動可能 - SIGHUP）と、IO::Multiplexの優れた特徴（
自動的にバッファされるIOとファイルハンドル毎のオブジェクト）を
持ち、簡単に使えるインターフェースとしてそれらを結合している。

=begin original

See examples/samplechat.pl distributed with Net::Server for a
simple chat server that uses several of these features.

=end original

Net::Serverと一緒に配布されるexamples/samplechat.plを参照。
そこにはこれらの機能のいくつかを利用した簡単なチャットサーバの
例がある。

=head1 処理の流れ

=begin original

The process flow is written in an open, easy to
override, easy to hook, fashion.  The basic flow is
shown below.

=end original

処理の流れは、オープンでオーバーライドしやすく、hookが
簡単なように書かれている。基本的な流れは次のようになる。


  $self->configure_hook;

  $self->configure(@_);

  $self->post_configure;

  $self->post_configure_hook;

  $self->pre_bind;

  $self->bind;

  if( Restarting server ){
     $self->restart_open_hook();
  }

  $self->post_bind_hook;

  $self->post_bind;

  $self->pre_loop_hook;

  $self->loop; # 基本的にIO::Multiplex::loopを実行しているだけ
  # ルーチンは$self->loop内部
  # 下のクライアント処理(CLIENT PROCESSING)を参照

  $self->pre_server_close_hook;

  $self->post_child_cleanup_hook;

  $self->server_close;

  if( Restarting server ){
     $self->restart_close_hook();
     $self->hup_server;
     # Redo process again starting with configure_hook
     # configure_hookを開始して、再び処理を繰り返す
  }

=begin original

The server then exits.

=end original

それからサーバは終了する。

=head1 クライアント処理

=begin original

The following represents the client processing program flow:

=end original

以下は、クライアント処理プログラムの流れを示している：

  $self->{server}->{client} = Net::Server::Proto::TCP->accept();  # 注意：下のmux_input()で多重化されている

  if (check_for_dequeue seconds have passed) {
    $self->run_dequeue();
  }

  $self->get_client_info;

  $self->post_accept_hook; # Net::Server型

  if( $self->allow_deny

      && $self->allow_deny_hook ){

    # (Net::Serverの$self->process_request()は決して呼ばれない)

    # この時点で、全てのmux_*メソッド用に
    # 一意なクライアントを指定するオブジェクトが生成される
    $self = __PACKAGE__->new($self, client);

    $self->mux_connection; # IO::Multiplex型

    for (every packet received) {
      $self->mux_input;  # 注意：上のaccept()で多重化
    }

  }else{

    $self->request_denied_hook;


    # allow_denyかallow_deny_hookのどちらかが失敗した場合、
    # new(), mux_connection(), とmux_input() は決して呼ばれない
    # mux_eof() と mux_close() はまだ呼ばれる。しかしユニークな
    # クライアント指定オブジェクトの代わりに、共通のlistenソケット
    # コールバックオブジェクトが利用される。
  }

  $self->mux_eof;

  $self->post_process_request_hook;

  $self->mux_close;


=begin original

This process then loops multiplexing between the accept()
for the next connection and mux_input() when input arrives
to avoid blocking either one.

=end original

このプロセスはそれから、次の接続用のaccept()と、入力が届いた
時にブロックするのを回避するためのmux_input()との間をループ
する。

=head1 HOOKS

=begin original

The *_hook methods mentioned above are meant to be overridden
with your own subroutines if you desire to provide additional
functionality.

=end original

上で述べられた*_hookメソッドは、もしあなたが追加の機能を
提供したいなら、あなたのサブルーチンでオーバーライドされる。

=begin original

The loop() method of Net::Server has been overridden to run the
loop routine of IO::Multiplex instead.  The Net::Server methods
may access the IO::Multiplex object at C<$self-E<gt>{mux}> if
desired.  The IO::Multiplex methods may access the Net::Server
object at C<$self-E<gt>{net_server}> if desired.

=end original

Net::Serverのloop()メソッドはオーバーライドされて、代わりに
IO::Multiplexのループルーチンが実行される。Net::Serverの
メソッドは、もし必要なら、C<$self-E<gt>{mux}>を使って
IO::Multipleオブジェクトにアクセスするかもしれない。
IO::Multipleメソッドは、必要なら、C<$self-E<gt>{net_server}>を
使ってNet::Serverオブジェクトにアクセスするかもしれない。

=begin original

The process_request() method is never used with this personality.

=end original

process_request()メソッドはこのパーソナリティでは決して使わない。

=begin original

The other Net::Server hooks and methods should work the same.

=end original

その他のNet::Serverのhookとメソッドは同じように働く。

=over 4

=item C<$self-E<gt>run_dequeue()>

=begin original

This hook only gets called in conjuction with the check_for_dequeue
setting.  It will run every check_for_dequeue seconds.  Since no
forking is done, this hook should run fast in order to prevent
blocking the rest of the processing.

=end original

このhookは、check_for_dequeueのセッティングと共に呼び出されるだけ
である。check_for_dequeue秒毎に実行される。forkは実行されないので、
このhookは処理の残りがブロックされるのを避けるよう、素早く実行
するべきである。

=back

=head1 タイムアウト

=head2 set_timeout

=begin original

To utilize the optional timeout feature of IO::Multiplex,
you need to specify a timeout by using the set_timeout
method.

=end original

IO::Multiplexのオプションであるタイムアウト機能を利用するために
set_timeoutメソッドを使ってタイムアウトを指定する必要がある。

$self->{net_server}->{mux}->set_timeout($fh, $seconds_from_now);

=begin original

$fh may be either a client socket or a listen socket file descriptor
within the mux.  $seconds_from_now may be fractional to achieve
more precise timeouts.  This is used in conjuction with mux_timeout,
which you should define yourself.

=end original

$fhはクライアントソケットか、mux内のlisten socketファイルの記述子
のどちらかになる。$seconds_from_nowはより正確なタイムアウトに達する
分数。mux_timeoutと共に使う。mux_timeoutは自ら定義する必要がある。

=head2 mux_timeout

=begin original

The main loop() routine will call $obj->mux_timeout($mux, $fh)
when the timeout specified in set_timeout is reached where
$fh is the same as the one specified in set_timeout() and
$obj is its corresponding object (either the unique client
specific object or the main listen callback object) and
$mux is the main IO::Multiplex object itself.

=end original

メインのloop()ルーチンはset_timeoutで指定されたタイムアウト時間に
達したとき、$obj->mux_timeout($mux, $fh)を呼び出す。そこでの
$fhはset_timeout()で指定されたものと同じである。そして、
$objは対応するオブジェクトである（ユニークなクライアント指定の
オブジェクトか、メインとなるlistenコールバックオブジェクトの
どちらか）。そして、$muxはメインのIO::Multiplexオブジェクトそのもの
である。

=head1 コールバックインターフェース

=begin original

Callback objects should support the following interface.  You do not have
to provide all of these methods, just provide the ones you are interested in.
These are just like the IO::Multiplex hooks except that STDOUT is tied to
the corresponding client socket handle for your convenience and to more
closely emulate the Net::Server model.  However, unlike some other
Net::Server personalities, you should never read directly from STDIN
yourself.   You should define one or more of the following methods:

=end original

コールバックオブジェクト次のにインターフェースをサポートしている。
あなたはこれら全てのメソッドを提供する必要はない。興味のあるもの
だけでいい。これらは正にIO::Multiplexのhookのようなものだ。ただし、
STDOUTが対応するクライアントソケットハンドルにtieされているのを
除いてだが。これにより便利に、また、よりNet::Serverモデルをエミュレート
するようになる。しかし、他のNet::Serverパーソナリティとは違って、
直接STDINから読み込むことはできない。次のメソッドを一つ以上定義する
べきだ。

=head2 mux_connection ($mux,$fh)

=begin original

(OPTIONAL)
Run once when the client first connects if the allow_deny passes.
Note that the C<$self-E<gt>{net_server}-E<gt>{server}> property hash
may be modified by future connections through Net::Server.  Any values
within it that this object may need to use later should be copied within
its own object at this point.

=end original

（オプション）
allow_denyをパスして、最初にクライアント接続がなされたときに一度だけ
実行される。C<$self-E<gt>{net_server}-E<gt>{server}>プロパティハッシュは、
Net::Serverを通じて将来の接続により修正されるかもしれないことに注意。
後でオブジェクトが使うも知れないこの中の値は、その時点のオブジェクト自身
の中でコピーされる必要がある。

Example:
  $self->{peerport} = $self->{net_server}->{server}->{peerport};

=head2 mux_input ($mux,$fh,\$data)

=begin original

(REQUIRED)
Run each time a packet is read.  It should consume $data starting
at the left and leave unconsumed data in the scalar for future
calls to mux_input.

=end original

（必須）
パケットが読まれるたびに実行される。$dataの文字列は左側から消費され、
消費されなかったデータは将来mux_inputを呼び出すためにスカラーに残る。

=head2 mux_eof ($mux,$fh,\$data)

=begin original

(OPTIONAL)
Run once when the client is done writing.  It should consume
the rest of $data since mux_input() will never be run again.

=end original

（オプション）
クライアントが書き出した時に一度だけ実行される。$dataの
残りを消費するべきだ。というのも、mux_input()は決して再実行
されないだろうからだ。

=head2 mux_close ($mux,$fh)

=begin original

(OPTIONAL)
Run after the entire client socket has been closed.  No more
attempts should be made to read or write to the client or to
STDOUT.

=end original

（オプション）
完全にクライアント接続が閉じた後に実行される。そのクライアント
やSTDOUTに対しては読み書きを試みてはいけない。

=head2 mux_timeout ($mux,$fh)

=begin original

(OPTIONAL)
Run once when the set_timeout setting expires as
explained above.

=end original

（オプション）
先に説明したset_timeoutの有効期限が切れたときに一度だけ
実行される。

=head1 バグ

=begin original

This is only known to work with TCP servers.

=end original

これはTCPサーバとして動作することが知られているだけだ。

=begin original

If you need to use the IO::Multiplex style set_timeout / mux_timeout
interface, you cannot use the Net::Server style check_for_dequeue
/ run_dequeue interface.  It will not work if the check_for_dequeue
option is specified.  The run_dequeue method is just a compatibility
interface to comply with the Net::Server::Fork style run_dequeue but
is implemented in terms of the IO::Multiplex style set_timeout and
mux_timeout methods.

=end original

もしもIO::Multiplexのset_timeout / mux_timeoutインタフェースを
利用したいなら、Net:Serverのcheck_for_dequeue / run_dequeue 
インターフェースを使うことは出来ない。もしcheck_for_dequeue
オプションが指定されていても動作しない。run_dequeueメソッドは、
Net::Server::Forkのrun_dequeueに対応する互換用インタフェースである。
だがこのrun_dequeueメソッドは、IO::Multiplexのset_timeoutと
mux_timeoutメソッドの観点で実装されている。

=begin original

Please notify me, the author, of any other problems or issues
you find.

=end original

あなたが見つけたその他の問題や課題を、作者である私にお知らせ願いたい。

=head1 作者

Copyright (C) 2001-2003, Rob Brown <bbb@cpan.org>

This package may be distributed under the terms of either the
GNU General Public License
   or the
Perl Artistic License

All rights reserved.

=head1 参考

L<Net::Server> by Paul Seamons <paul@seamons.com>,

L<IO::Multiplex> by Bruce Keeler <bruce@gridpoint.com>.

