=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

=begin original

perlpolicy - Various and sundry policies and commitments related to the Perl core

=end original

perlpolicy - Perlコアにまつわるさまざまな方針、公約

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This document is the master document which records all written
policies about how the Perl 5 Porters collectively develop and maintain
the Perl core.

=end original

この文書は Perl 5 Porters が共同でどう Perl のコアを開発、
維持していくかという方針をまとめたものです。
この文書(の原文)が原本であり、明文化された方針はすべてこの文書に
記録されます。

=head1 GOVERNANCE

=head2 Perl 5 Porters

=begin original

Subscribers to perl5-porters (the porters themselves) come in several flavours.
Some are quiet curious lurkers, who rarely pitch in and instead watch
the ongoing development to ensure they're forewarned of new changes or
features in Perl.  Some are representatives of vendors, who are there
to make sure that Perl continues to compile and work on their
platforms.  Some patch any reported bug that they know how to fix,
some are actively patching their pet area (threads, Win32, the regexp
-engine), while others seem to do nothing but complain.  In other
words, it's your usual mix of technical people.

=end original

perl5-porters メーリングリストの購読者(「porters」自身)にもさまざまな種類の
人がいます。
何かを知るために黙って投稿を読んでいるだけの人もいますし(彼らは、
開発に加わることはめったにないものの、開発の進捗をウオッチして Perl の
最新の変更や機能を確実に先取りできるようにしているのです)、中にはベンダーを
代表して、Perl が自分たちのプラットフォームで確実にコンパイル、
動作できるようにし続けている人もいます。
直し方を知っているバグレポートが来たらパッチをあてるという人もいますし、
自分の好きな分野(スレッド、Win32、正規表現エンジン)には積極的に
パッチをあてるという人もいます。
文句を言っているだけのように見える人もいます。
別の言い方をすれば、よくある技術者たちの集まりだということです。

=begin original

Over this group of porters presides Larry Wall.  He has the final word
in what does and does not change in any of the Perl programming languages.
These days, Larry spends most of his time on Raku, while Perl 5 is
shepherded by a "pumpking", a porter responsible for deciding what
goes into each release and ensuring that releases happen on a regular
basis.

=end original

この porters グループの頂点にいるのが Larry Wall です。
Larry は Perl というプログラミング言語のあらゆる部分について、変える、
変えないの最終決定権を持っています。
ただし、最近では Larry がほとんどの時間を Raku に費やしているため、
Perl 5 の方は「パンプキン(pumpking)」と呼ばれる porter が率いているように
なっています。
パンプキンの仕事は、何をどのリリースに含めるかを決め、リリースが定期的に
行われるように手配することです。

=begin original

Larry sees Perl development along the lines of the US government:
there's the Legislature (the porters), the Executive branch (the
-pumpking), and the Supreme Court (Larry).  The legislature can
discuss and submit patches to the executive branch all they like, but
the executive branch is free to veto them.  Rarely, the Supreme Court
will side with the executive branch over the legislature, or the
legislature over the executive branch.  Mostly, however, the
legislature and the executive branch are supposed to get along and
work out their differences without impeachment or court cases.

=end original

Larry は Perl の開発をアメリカの行政機構になぞらえています。
つまり、議会(porters)があり、政府(パンプキン)があり、
最高裁(Larry)があるというわけです。
議会は自分たちの好きなように議論し、パッチを政府に提出できますが、政府には
そのパッチを拒否する自由があります。
最高裁はよほどのことでもなければ議会より政府を
優先する立場をとったり、政府より議会を優先する立場をとったりしませんが、
ふつうは議会も政府も、訴追や裁判に訴えることなく、協力して意見の相違を
すりあわせるものとされています。

=begin original

You might sometimes see reference to Rule 1 and Rule 2.  Larry's power
as Supreme Court is expressed in The Rules:

=end original

ただし、ときには「ルール 1」や「ルール 2」への言及を
目にすることがあるかもしれません。
最高裁としてのLarryの権力を示すものとして、以下のような「ルール」があります。

=over 4

=item 1

=begin original

Larry is always by definition right about how Perl should behave.
This means he has final veto power on the core functionality.

=end original

定義により、Perl がどう振る舞うべきかについては常に Larry が
正しいことになっています。
つまり、コア機能についてはLarryが最終的な拒否権を持っています。

=item 2

=begin original

Larry is allowed to change his mind about any matter at a later date,
regardless of whether he previously invoked Rule 1.

=end original

Larry はいかなることについても、あとから考えを変えることが許されています。
以前にルール 1 を発動させたかどうかにかかわらずです。

=back

=begin original

Got that?  Larry is always right, even when he was wrong.  It's rare
to see either Rule exercised, but they are often alluded to.

=end original

わかりましたね?
Larry は常に正しいのです。
たとえ過去の彼が間違っていたとしても。
どちらのルールも実際に発動されることはめったにありませんが、
それとなく言われることはままあるものです。

=head1 MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

(メンテナンスとサポート)

=begin original

Perl 5 is developed by a community, not a corporate entity. Every change
contributed to the Perl core is the result of a donation. Typically, these
donations are contributions of code or time by individual members of our
community. On occasion, these donations come in the form of corporate
or organizational sponsorship of a particular individual or project.

=end original

Perl 5 の開発にあたっているのはコミュニティであり、企業体ではありません。
Perl コアに加えられる変更はすべからく寄付によるものです。
この寄付は、典型的にはコミュニティに属する個人がコードや時間を
提供するという形で行われていますが、場合によっては企業、団体が
特定個人ないしプロジェクトに出資するという形をとることもあります。

=begin original

As a volunteer organization, the commitments we make are heavily dependent
on the goodwill and hard work of individuals who have no obligation to
contribute to Perl.

=end original

ボランティアの集団である私たちの活動は個人の厚意や努力に大きく依存しています。
私たちには Perl に貢献しなければならない義務があるわけではありません。

=begin original

That being said, we value Perl's stability and security and have long
had an unwritten covenant with the broader Perl community to support
and maintain releases of Perl.

=end original

もっとも、私たちも Perl の安定性や安全性は大切に思っています。
そのため、昔から、より広い意味での Perl コミュニティに属するみなさんとの
暗黙の了解事項として、
過去にリリースされた Perl のサポートやメンテナンスもしてきました。

=begin original

This document codifies the support and maintenance commitments that
the Perl community should expect from Perl's developers:

=end original

この文書はそのサポートやメンテナンスの約束を成文化するためのものです。
Perl コミュニティが Perl の開発陣に期待してもよいものは以下の通りです。

=over

=item *

=begin original

We "officially" support the two most recent stable release series.  5.26.x
and earlier are now out of support.  As of the release of 5.32.0, we will
"officially" end support for Perl 5.28.x, other than providing security
updates as described below.

=end original

私たちが「公式に」サポートするのは、最新の安定版とそのひとつ前の
安定版のみです。
5.26.x 以前のバージョンはもうサポートの対象外です。
5.32.0 がリリースされたら「公式に」Perl 5.28.x のサポートを終了します。
ただし、後述するセキュリティアップデートの提供は例外とします。

=item *

=begin original

To the best of our ability, we will attempt to fix critical issues
in the two most recent stable 5.x release series.  Fixes for the
current release series take precedence over fixes for the previous
release series.

=end original

直近二つの安定版については、最善を尽くして致命的な問題の修正につとめます。
また、現行版に対する修正は過去のリリースに対する修正より優先されます。

=item *

=begin original

To the best of our ability, we will provide "critical" security patches
/ releases for any major version of Perl whose 5.x.0 release was within
the past three years.  We can only commit to providing these for the
most recent .y release in any 5.x.y series.

=end original

過去 3 年以内にバージョン 5.x.0 がリリースされた Perl に対する「致命的な」
セキュリティ問題については、最善を尽くしてパッチやリリースを提供します。
ただし、提供を約束できるのはそれぞれの 5.x.y シリーズの
最新の .y リリースについてのみです。

=item *

=begin original

We will not provide security updates or bug fixes for development
releases of Perl.

=end original

開発版の Perl に対するセキュリティアップデートやバグ修正は行いません。

=item *

=begin original

We encourage vendors to ship the most recent supported release of
Perl at the time of their code freeze.

=end original

ベンダー各位にはベンダー各位のコードフリーズ時点でサポートされている
最新の Perl を同梱してくださるようお願いします。

=item *

=begin original

As a vendor, you may have a requirement to backport security fixes
beyond our 3 year support commitment.  We can provide limited support and
advice to you as you do so and, where possible will try to apply
those patches to the relevant -maint branches in git, though we may or
may not choose to make numbered releases or "official" patches
available. See L<perlsec/SECURITY VULNERABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION>
for details on how to begin that process.

=end original

ベンダー各位には、Perl の開発陣が約束する 3 年間というサポート期間よりも古い
バージョンにセキュリティフィックスをあてる必要があるかもしれません。
その場合、限定的なサポートや助言であれば提供できますし、
可能ならばそのようなパッチを関係する -maint ブランチにもあてる努力はします。
ただし、バージョンをあげてリリースをしたり「公式」パッチを提供する選択を
行うかどうかはわかりません。
この手続きの始め方に関する詳細については
L<perlsec/SECURITY VULNERABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION> を参照してください。

=back

=head1 BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY AND DEPRECATION

(後方互換性と廃止予定)

=begin original

Our community has a long-held belief that backward-compatibility is a
virtue, even when the functionality in question is a design flaw.

=end original

Perl コミュニティは昔から後方互換性を美徳としてきました。
たとえ問題の機能が設計上の欠陥だったとしてもです。

=begin original

We would all love to unmake some mistakes we've made over the past
decades.  Living with every design error we've ever made can lead
to painful stagnation.  Unwinding our mistakes is very, very
difficult.  Doing so without actively harming our users is
nearly impossible.

=end original

過去何十年かのうちにしでかした失敗のいくつかをなかったものにしたいとは
誰しも願うことです。
過去にしでかしたあらゆる設計ミスを甘受していては
つらい停滞期にもつながりかねません。
ただし、失敗をなかったことにするのは
本当に本当にむずかしいことですし、わざわざユーザを傷つけるようなことを
せずにすますのはほとんど不可能です。

=begin original

Lately, ignoring or actively opposing compatibility with earlier versions
of Perl has come into vogue.  Sometimes, a change is proposed which
wants to usurp syntax which previously had another meaning.  Sometimes,
a change wants to improve previously-crazy semantics.

=end original

最近は過去のバージョンとの互換性を無視したり、わざわざ互換性をなくすような
動きが流行しています。
以前は別の意味を持っていた文法を無理矢理別の意味で使うような
変更が提案されることもありますし、以前のとんでもない動作を
改善しようとする変更もあります。

=begin original

Down this road lies madness.

=end original

この道の先にあるのは、狂気です。

=begin original

Requiring end-user programmers to change just a few language constructs,
even language constructs which no well-educated developer would ever
intentionally use is tantamount to saying "you should not upgrade to
a new release of Perl unless you have 100% test coverage and can do a
full manual audit of your codebase."  If we were to have tools capable of
reliably upgrading Perl source code from one version of Perl to another,
this concern could be significantly mitigated.

=end original

エンドユーザのプログラマに多少であっても言語の構築要素を変更するよう
強制するのは、たとえそれが十分な教育を受けた開発者ならわざわざ
使ったりはしないような要素であってもひどいことですし、
「コードベースのテストカバレッジ率が 100% で、十分な手動チェックを
行えるのでもなければ、Perl を最新版にアップグレードすべきではない」と
言うようなものです。
特定バージョンの Perl から別のバージョンの Perl へと確実にソースコードを
アップグレードできるツールでもあればこの懸念はかなり緩和されるでしょうが、
そのようなものはまだありません。

=begin original

We want to ensure that Perl continues to grow and flourish in the coming
years and decades, but not at the expense of our user community.

=end original

私たちはこの先何年、何十年と Perl が成長、繁栄し続けるようにしたいと
思っていますが、
そのためにユーザコミュニティを犠牲にするようなことはしたくありません。

=begin original

Existing syntax and semantics should only be marked for destruction in
very limited circumstances.  If they are believed to be very rarely used,
stand in the way of actual improvement to the Perl language or perl
interpreter, and if affected code can be easily updated to continue
working, they may be considered for removal.  When in doubt, caution
dictates that we will favor backward compatibility.  When a feature is
deprecated, a statement of reasoning describing the decision process
will be posted, and a link to it will be provided in the relevant
perldelta documents.

=end original

既存の文法や動作を破壊するのはごく限られた場合のみで
あるべきです。
ある機能がほとんど使われていないと信じることができ、
Perl 言語や perl インタプリタの実際の改良の邪魔になり、
影響を受けるコードが動き続けるように簡単に更新できる場合、
削除が考慮されることがあります。
疑わしい場合は、後方互換性を重視しているので、用心が上回ります。
ある機能が廃止予定になるとき、決定手順を説明した理由の声明が投稿され、
関連する perldelta でそれへのリンクが提供されます。

=begin original

Using a lexical pragma to enable or disable legacy behavior should be
considered when appropriate, and in the absence of any pragma legacy
behavior should be enabled.  Which backward-incompatible changes are
controlled implicitly by a 'use v5.x.y' is a decision which should be
made by the pumpking in consultation with the community.

=end original

適切な場合は、以前の振る舞いを有効または無効にするためのレキシカルプラグマが
考慮されるべきです; そしてプラグマがない場合は以前の振る舞いが
有効になるべきです。
また、後方非互換な変更のうち、
'use v5.x.y' によって暗黙のうちに管理されるものをどれにするかはパンプキンが
コミュニティと相談して決めるべきことです。

=begin original

Historically, we've held ourselves to a far higher standard than
backward-compatibility -- bugward-compatibility.  Any accident of
implementation or unintentional side-effect of running some bit of code
has been considered to be a feature of the language to be defended with
the same zeal as any other feature or functionality.  No matter how
frustrating these unintentional features may be to us as we continue
to improve Perl, these unintentional features often deserve our
protection.  It is very important that existing software written in
Perl continue to work correctly.  If end-user developers have adopted a
bug as a feature, we need to treat it as such.

=end original

歴史的には、私たちは後方互換性よりもはるかに高い基準――後方バグ互換性――を
守ってきました。
実装上のどんな事故も、コードの小片を実行したときの意図せぬ
副作用も、言語の一機能として、ほかのあらゆる機能と同じ熱意を持って守るべき
ものとみなしてきたのです。
このような意図せぬ機能がPerlの改善を続けていく
うちにどんなにいらだたしいものになったとしても、多くの場合は残しておくだけの
価値はあります。
Perl で書かれた既存のソフトウェアが正しく動作し続けることは
非常に大切なことであり、エンドユーザ側の開発者がバグを一機能として認めて
しまったのであれば、私たちもそれをそのように扱う必要があるのです。

=begin original

New syntax and semantics which don't break existing language constructs
and syntax have a much lower bar.  They merely need to prove themselves
to be useful, elegant, well designed, and well tested.  In most cases,
these additions will be marked as I<experimental> for some time.  See
below for more on that.

=end original

新しい文法や動作であっても、既存の言語要素や文法を
破壊しないものについてははるかに障壁が低くなります。
役に立ち、エレガントで、
しっかり設計され、よくテストされていることを証明しさえすればよいのです。
ほとんどの場合、これらの追加はしばらくの間 I<実験的> (experimental) として
銘打たれます。
これに関するさらなる情報は以下を参照してください。

=head2 Terminology

(用語)

=begin original

To make sure we're talking about the same thing when we discuss the removal
of features or functionality from the Perl core, we have specific definitions
for a few words and phrases.

=end original

Perl のコアから機能を削除する話をする際の認識あわせを確実にするため、
特定の意味で使っている語句がいくつかあります。

=over

=item experimental

(実験的(experimental))

=begin original

If something in the Perl core is marked as B<experimental>, we may change
its behaviour, deprecate or remove it without notice. While we'll always
do our best to smooth the transition path for users of experimental
features, you should contact the perl5-porters mailinglist if you find
an experimental feature useful and want to help shape its future.

=end original

Perl コアに入っているものでB<実験的(experimental)>と銘打たれている
ものについては、
予告なく動作を変更したり、廃止予定にしたり、削除したりすることがあります。
実験的な機能を
使っているユーザがスムーズに移行できるよういつでも最大限の努力はしますが、
もし何らかの実験的な機能について便利なので将来的にも残したいと思ったら
perl5-porters メーリングリストに投稿してください。

=begin original

Experimental features must be experimental in two stable releases before being
marked non-experimental.  Experimental features will only have their
experimental status revoked when they no longer have any design-changing bugs
open against them and when they have remained unchanged in behavior for the
entire length of a development cycle.  In other words, a feature present in
v5.20.0 may be marked no longer experimental in v5.22.0 if and only if its
behavior is unchanged throughout all of v5.21.

=end original

実験的機能は、実験的でないとされる前に、二つの安定版リリースの間
実験的でなければなりません。
実験的機能は、もはや設計を変更するようなバグがなく、一つの開発サイクルの間
振る舞いが変更されなかった場合にのみ、その実験的という状態が削除されます。
言い換えると、v5.20.0 に存在する機能は、全ての v5.21 の間にその振る舞いが
変わらなかった場合にのみ、v5.22.0 で実験的でなくなります。

=item deprecated

(廃止予定(deprecated))

=begin original

If something in the Perl core is marked as B<deprecated>, we may remove it
from the core in the future, though we might not.  Generally, backward
incompatible changes will have deprecation warnings for two release
cycles before being removed, but may be removed after just one cycle if
the risk seems quite low or the benefits quite high.

=end original

Perl コアに入っているものでB<廃止予定(deprecated)>と銘打たれているものに
ついては、将来コアから削除するかもしれません(しないかもしれません)。
一般的に、後方互換性を失う変更は、削除される前に二つのリリースサイクルの間
廃止予定警告を出しますが、リスクが非常に低いか効果が非常に高い場合は、
一つのサイクルの後で削除されることがあります。

=begin original

As of
Perl 5.12, deprecated features and modules warn the user as they're used.
When a module is deprecated, it will also be made available on CPAN.
Installing it from CPAN will silence deprecation warnings for that module.

=end original

Perl 5.12 以降、
廃止予定の機能やモジュールを使った場合は警告が出るようになりました。
モジュールを廃止予定にする場合、
そのモジュールは CPAN から入手できるようにします。
CPAN からモジュールをインストールすると
そのモジュールについての廃止予定の警告は出なくなります。

=begin original

If you use a deprecated feature or module and believe that its removal from
the Perl core would be a mistake, please contact the perl5-porters
mailinglist and plead your case.  We don't deprecate things without a good
reason, but sometimes there's a counterargument we haven't considered.
Historically, we did not distinguish between "deprecated" and "discouraged"
features.

=end original

廃止予定の機能やモジュールを使っていて、Perl コアから削除してしまうのは
間違いだと思う方は
perl5-porters のメーリングリストに投稿してください。
私たちは十分な理由がなければ廃止予定にはしませんが、
私たちが考慮しなかった反論が出てくる場合もあります。
歴史的には「廃止予定(deprecated)」の機能と
「非推奨(discouraged)」の機能の区別はありませんでした。

=item discouraged

(非推奨(discouraged))

=begin original

From time to time, we may mark language constructs and features which we
consider to have been mistakes as B<discouraged>.  Discouraged features
aren't currently candidates for removal, but
we may later deprecate them if they're found to stand in the way of a
significant improvement to the Perl core.

=end original

私たちはときどき失敗だったと思われる言語要素や機能を B<非推奨(discouraged)> と
銘打つことがあります。
非推奨の機能は現在の所削除対象にはなりませんが、
その後、Perl コアを大きく改善しようとする際に障害となることが判明した場合は
廃止予定にすることはあります。

=item removed

(削除(removed))

=begin original

Once a feature, construct or module has been marked as deprecated, we
may remove it from the Perl core.  Unsurprisingly,
we say we've B<removed> these things.  When a module is removed, it will
no longer ship with Perl, but will continue to be available on CPAN.

=end original

安定版リリースの際に一度廃止予定と銘打たれた機能や言語要素、モジュールに
ついては、Perl コアから削除することがあります。
当然ながら、そのようなものについては
B<削除(removed)> したと言います。
モジュールを削除した場合、そのモジュールは以後
Perl に同梱されることはなくなりますが、CPAN からは引き続き入手できます。

=back

=head1 MAINTENANCE BRANCHES

(メンテナンスブランチ)

=begin original

New releases of maintenance branches should only contain changes that fall into
one of the "acceptable" categories set out below, but must not contain any
changes that fall into one of the "unacceptable" categories.  (For example, a
fix for a crashing bug must not be included if it breaks binary compatibility.)

=end original

メンテナンスブランチの新しいリリースは、後述する「受け入れられる」カテゴリの
一つである変更のみを含むべきで、「受け入れられない」カテゴリのものは
含めてはいけません。
(例えば、クラッシュバグの修正は、バイナリ互換性を破壊する場合は含めては
いけません。)

=begin original

It is not necessary to include every change meeting these criteria, and in
general the focus should be on addressing security issues, crashing bugs,
regressions and serious installation issues.  The temptation to include a
plethora of minor changes that don't affect the installation or execution of
perl (e.g. spelling corrections in documentation) should be resisted in order
to reduce the overall risk of overlooking something.  The intention is to
create maintenance releases which are both worthwhile and which users can have
full confidence in the stability of.  (A secondary concern is to avoid burning
out the maint-pumpking or overwhelming other committers voting on changes to be
included (see L</"Getting changes into a maint branch"> below).)

=end original

この基準に適合する全ての変更を含む必要はなく、一般的には
セキュリティ問題、クラッシュバグ、退行、重大なインストール問題に
集中するべきです。
perl のインストールに影響を与えない大量の小さな変更
(文書のスペル修正など) を含めるという誘惑に対しては、
何かを見落とす全体的なリスクを減らすために抵抗されるべきです。
この目的は、価値があり、ユーザーが安定性に完全な自信を持てる
メンテナンスリリースを作ることです。
(補助的な考慮事項は、メンテナンスパンプキンの燃え尽きを避けたり、
どの変更を含むかを投票するその他のコミッタが圧倒されることを避けることです
(後述する L</"Getting changes into a maint branch"> を参照してください)。)

=begin original

The following types of change may be considered acceptable, as long as they do
not also fall into any of the "unacceptable" categories set out below:

=end original

次のような変更は、その次にある「受け入れられない」カテゴリのものでなければ、
受け入れられると考えられます。

=over

=item *

=begin original

Patches that fix CVEs or security issues.  These changes should
be passed using the security reporting mechanism rather than applied
directly; see L<perlsec/SECURITY VULNERABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION>.

=end original

CVE やセキュリティの問題を修正するパッチ。
これらの変更は、パッチを直接適用するのではなく、
セキュリティ報告機構を使って渡されたものであるべきです;
L<perlsec/SECURITY VULNERABILITY CONTACT INFORMATION> を参照してください。

=item *

=begin original

Patches that fix crashing bugs, assertion failures and
memory corruption but which do not otherwise change perl's
functionality or negatively impact performance.

=end original

クラッシュするバグ、アサーション失敗、メモリ破壊を修正するパッチで、
ほかの機能を変更せず、性能を劣化させないもの。

=item *

=begin original

Patches that fix regressions in perl's behavior relative to previous
releases, no matter how old the regression, since some people may
upgrade from very old versions of perl to the latest version.

=end original

過去のリリースに比べて Perl の挙動が退行した場合、それを修正するパッチ;
どれだけ古い退行であってもです;
とても古いバージョンの perl から最新バージョンにアップグレードする人が
いるかもしれないからです。

=item *

=begin original

Patches that fix bugs in features that were new in the corresponding 5.x.0
stable release.

=end original

対応する 5.x.0 安定版リリースでの新機能のバグを修正するパッチ。

=item *

=begin original

Patches that fix anything which prevents or seriously impacts the build
or installation of perl.

=end original

perl のビルドやインストールを阻害したり重大な影響を与えたりするものを
修正するパッチ。

=item *

=begin original

Portability fixes, such as changes to Configure and the files in
the hints/ folder.

=end original

Configure や hints ディレクトリ内のファイルに対する修正など、移植性の問題
に対する修正。

=item *

=begin original

Minimal patches that fix platform-specific test failures.

=end original

特定のプラットフォームに固有のテストの失敗を修正する最小限のパッチ。

=item *

=begin original

Documentation updates that correct factual errors, explain significant
bugs or deficiencies in the current implementation, or fix broken markup.

=end original

事実関係の誤りを正す、現在の実装の重大なバグや欠陥を説明する、
マークアップの崩れを訂正する、といった文書の更新。

=item *

=begin original

Updates to dual-life modules should consist of minimal patches to
fix crashing bugs or security issues (as above).  Any changes made to
dual-life modules for which CPAN is canonical should be coordinated with
the upstream author.

=end original

二重管理モジュールの更新については、(上述の通り)クラッシュバグの修正や
セキュリティ問題の修正を行う最小限のパッチのみ含むようにすべきです。
CPAN 版が正とされる二重管理モジュールに対する変更は、
上流の作者と調整しながら行うべきです。

=back

=begin original

The following types of change are NOT acceptable:

=end original

次のような種類の変更は受け入れられません:

=over

=item *

=begin original

Patches that break binary compatibility.  (Please talk to a pumpking.)

=end original

バイナリ互換性を破壊するパッチ。
(パンプキンに相談してください。)

=item *

=begin original

Patches that add or remove features.

=end original

機能を追加、削除するパッチ。

=item *

=begin original

Patches that add new warnings or errors or deprecate features.

=end original

新しい警告やエラーを追加したり、機能を廃止予定にするパッチ。

=item *

=begin original

Ports of Perl to a new platform, architecture or OS release that
involve changes to the implementation.

=end original

実装の変更を伴う、新しいプラットフォーム、アーキテクチャ、OS への
Perl の移植。

=item *

=begin original

New versions of dual-life modules should NOT be imported into maint.
Those belong in the next stable series.

=end original

二重管理モジュールの新版はメンテナンスブランチにインポートすべきでは
ありません。
二重管理モジュールの新版は次の安定版に属するものです。

=back

=begin original

If there is any question about whether a given patch might merit
inclusion in a maint release, then it almost certainly should not
be included.

=end original

メンテナンスリリースに含める価値があるか疑問が残るパッチについては、ほぼ
確実に含めるべきではありません。

=head2 Getting changes into a maint branch

(maint ブランチに変更を加える)

=begin original

Historically, only the pumpking cherry-picked changes from bleadperl
into maintperl.  This has scaling problems.  At the same time,
maintenance branches of stable versions of Perl need to be treated with
great care.  To that end, as of Perl 5.12, we have a new process for
maint branches.

=end original

歴史的に、bleadperl から maintperl へ更新のチェリーピッキングを行っていたのは
パンプキンだけでした。
これは、スケールしないという問題があります。
また、安定版のメンテナンスブランチは細心の注意を払って取り扱う必要もあります。
そのため、Perl 5.12 以降、maint ブランチについては新しいやり方をとっています。

=begin original

Any committer may cherry-pick any commit from blead to a maint branch by
first adding an entry to the relevant voting file in the maint-votes branch
announcing the commit as a candidate for back-porting, and then waiting for
at least two other committers to add their votes in support of this (i.e. a
total of at least three votes is required before a commit may be back-ported).

=end original

blead から maint ブランチには、コミッタなら誰でも、どのコミットでも
チェリーピッキングできます;
まず、バックポート候補のコミットを通知する maint-votes ブランチにある
適切な投票ファイルにエントリを追加し、
それから、それを支持する投票を追加する少なくとも二人の他のコミッタを
待ちます (つまり、コミットがバックポートされる前には、少なくとも
合計 3 票が必要です)。

=begin original

Most of the work involved in both rounding up a suitable set of candidate
commits and cherry-picking those for which three votes have been cast will
be done by the maint branch release manager, but anyone else is free to add
other proposals if they're keen to ensure certain fixes don't get overlooked
or fear they already have been.

=end original

適切なコミット候補の集合をまとめて、3 票以上投じられたものを
チェリーピックすることに関する作業のほとんどは、
メンテナンスブランチリリースマネージャによって行われますが、
他の誰でも、特定の修正が見落としていなかったり既にしている恐れがないことが
確実な場合は、自由に他の提案を追加できます。

=begin original

Other voting mechanisms may also be used instead (e.g. sending mail to
perl5-porters and at least two other committers responding to the list
giving their assent), as long as the same number of votes is gathered in a
transparent manner.  Specifically, proposals of which changes to cherry-pick
must be visible to everyone on perl5-porters so that the views of everyone
interested may be heard.

=end original

透明性のある手段によって、同じ数の得票を集められれば、代わりに他の投票機構を
使うこともできます
(例えば perl5-porters にメールを送って、少なくとも他の2人のコミッタが
賛意をリストに送る)。
特に、どの変更をチェリーピックするかの提案は、
関心のある人全ての耳に届くように、
perl5-porters の全員から見える形でなければなりません。

=begin original

It is not necessary for voting to be held on cherry-picking perldelta
entries associated with changes that have already been cherry-picked, nor
for the maint-pumpking to obtain votes on changes required by the
F<Porting/release_managers_guide.pod> where such changes can be applied by
the means of cherry-picking from blead.

=end original

既にチェリーピッキングされている変更に関する perldelta エントリを
チェリーピッキングする場合や、maint パンプキンが
F<Porting/release_managers_guide.pod> で求められている変更をする場合は、
投票する必要はありません;
これらの変更は blead からチェリーピッキングされる場合が適用されます。

=head1 CONTRIBUTED MODULES

(寄贈されたモジュール)

=head2 A Social Contract about Artistic Control

(アーティスティックコントロールに関する社会契約)

=begin original

What follows is a statement about artistic control, defined as the ability
of authors of packages to guide the future of their code and maintain
control over their work.  It is a recognition that authors should have
control over their work, and that it is a responsibility of the rest of
the Perl community to ensure that they retain this control.  It is an
attempt to document the standards to which we, as Perl developers, intend
to hold ourselves.  It is an attempt to write down rough guidelines about
the respect we owe each other as Perl developers.

=end original

以下はアーティスティックコントロールについての声明です;
アーティスティックコントロールは
パッケージの作者がそのコードの命運を握り、作品の管理権を維持できるように
することと定義されます。
これは、作品を管理するのは作者であるべきであり、Perl コミュニティに
属する人々には、作者がその管理権を確実に保持できるようにする責任がある、と
認めるものです。
Perl 開発者が遵守すべき規範を文書化しようという試みであり、Perl 開発者同士
尊重しあおうという大まかなガイドラインを書き下ろす試みでもあります。

=begin original

This statement is not a legal contract.  This statement is not a legal
document in any way, shape, or form.  Perl is distributed under the GNU
Public License and under the Artistic License; those are the precise legal
terms.  This statement isn't about the law or licenses.  It's about
community, mutual respect, trust, and good-faith cooperation.

=end original

この声明は法的な契約ではありません。
この声明はいかなる意味、形式でも法律文書ではありません。
Perl は GNU Public License と Artistic License のもとで配布されています;
これこそが法律用語です。
この声明は法律やライセンスに関するものではありません。
この声明はコミュニティや相互尊重、信頼、誠実な協力についてのものです。

=begin original

We recognize that the Perl core, defined as the software distributed with
the heart of Perl itself, is a joint project on the part of all of us.
From time to time, a script, module, or set of modules (hereafter referred
to simply as a "module") will prove so widely useful and/or so integral to
the correct functioning of Perl itself that it should be distributed with
the Perl core.  This should never be done without the author's explicit
consent, and a clear recognition on all parts that this means the module
is being distributed under the same terms as Perl itself.  A module author
should realize that inclusion of a module into the Perl core will
necessarily mean some loss of control over it, since changes may
occasionally have to be made on short notice or for consistency with the
rest of Perl.

=end original

私たちは、Perl コア(Perl 自身の本体として配布されているソフトウェアと
定義されます)は
私たち全員が関与しているジョイントプロジェクトであると認識しています。
ときどき、あるスクリプトなりモジュールなりモジュール群なり(以降は単に
「モジュール」と呼称します)が
非常に便利である、あるいは Perl 自身の正しい動作に不可欠であると実証されて、
Perl コアとともに配布すべきだとされることもありますが、
そのモジュールの作者が明示的に同意し、
そのモジュールが Perl 自身と同じライセンスで配布されることになることも明確に
認識していない限り、そのようなことはすべきではありません。
モジュールの作者は、モジュールを Perl のコアに含めることで必然的に
支配権の一部を失うことになることは理解すべきです;
ときには、急な通告とともに、あるいは Perl のほかの部分と一貫性を保つために、
変更が加えられることもありうるためです。

=begin original

Once a module has been included in the Perl core, however, everyone
involved in maintaining Perl should be aware that the module is still the
property of the original author unless the original author explicitly
gives up their ownership of it.  In particular:

=end original

ただし、モジュールが Perl コアに入ったからといって、原作者が明示的に所有権を
放棄しない限り、そのモジュールはまだ原作者の所有物である、ということを、
Perl のメンテナンスに関わっている人は皆、頭に入れておくべきです。
具体的に言うと:

=over

=item *

=begin original

The version of the module in the Perl core should still be considered the
work of the original author.  All patches, bug reports, and so
forth should be fed back to them.  Their development directions
should be respected whenever possible.

=end original

Perl コアに入っているバージョンもまだ原作者の作品であるとみなすべきであり、
パッチやバグレポートなどはすべて原作者にフィードバックすべきです。
原作者の開発方針は可能な限り尊重されるべきです。

=item *

=begin original

Patches may be applied by the pumpkin holder without the explicit
cooperation of the module author if and only if they are very minor,
time-critical in some fashion (such as urgent security fixes), or if
the module author cannot be reached.  Those patches must still be
given back to the author when possible, and if the author decides on
an alternate fix in their version, that fix should be strongly
preferred unless there is a serious problem with it.  Any changes not
endorsed by the author should be marked as such, and the contributor
of the change acknowledged.

=end original

パンプキンがモジュール作者の明示的な協力なしにパッチを適用してもよいのは、
そのパッチが非常に小さなもので、（緊急のセキュリティパッチなど）
何らかの事情で最優先で処理する必要がある場合、あるいはモジュール作者と
連絡がつかない場合のみです。
このような場合も、パッチは可能ならばかならず作者に還元しなければなりません。
また、作者が自分のバージョンで別のやり方で修正を加える決断をした場合、
その修正に深刻な問題がない限り、作者側の修正を積極的に優先すべきです。
作者の承認を得ていない変更はすべからくそのように銘打つべきですし、
その変更に貢献した人を明記すべきです。

=item *

=begin original

The version of the module distributed with Perl should, whenever
possible, be the latest version of the module as distributed by the
author (the latest non-beta version in the case of public Perl
releases), although the pumpkin holder may hold off on upgrading the
version of the module distributed with Perl to the latest version
until the latest version has had sufficient testing.

=end original

Perl に同梱されているバージョンは、可能ならば常に原作者が配布している
モジュールの最新版(Perl の公開版の場合は最新の非ベータ版)であるべきです。
ただし、最新版が十分にテストされるまでパンプキンが Perl に同梱されている
モジュールのアップグレードを先送りにすることはあります。

=back

=begin original

In other words, the author of a module should be considered to have final
say on modifications to their module whenever possible (bearing in mind
that it's expected that everyone involved will work together and arrive at
reasonable compromises when there are disagreements).

=end original

言い換えると、モジュールの修正に対する最終決定権は可能な限り常にモジュールの
作者が持っているとみなすべきです(ただし、意見の相違がある場合、関係者全員が
協力して合理的な妥協を行うことが期待されていることは
念頭に入れておいてください)。

=begin original

As a last resort, however:

=end original

ただし、最後の手段として:

=begin original

If the author's vision of the future of their module is sufficiently
different from the vision of the pumpkin holder and perl5-porters as a
whole so as to cause serious problems for Perl, the pumpkin holder may
choose to formally fork the version of the module in the Perl core from the
one maintained by the author.  This should not be done lightly and
should B<always> if at all possible be done only after direct input
from Larry.  If this is done, it must then be made explicit in the
module as distributed with the Perl core that it is a forked version and
that while it is based on the original author's work, it is no longer
maintained by them.  This must be noted in both the documentation and
in the comments in the source of the module.

=end original

作者がそのモジュールを将来どうしたいかという展望と、パンプキンや
perl5-porters 全体の展望とが著しく異なり、Perl に深刻な問題を引き起こす場合、
パンプキンは、作者がメンテナンスしているバージョンから Perl コアに入れる
バージョンを公式に枝分かれさせる選択をすることもあります。
この選択は軽々しく行うべきではありませんし、可能な限り B<かならず> Larry に
直接指示をあおいだうえで行うべきです。
また、そうしてしまった場合は、Perl コアに同梱するモジュールには、もとの
モジュールから分岐したバージョンであること、また原作者の作品に
基づいているものの、もう原作者がメンテナンスしているわけではないことを
明記しなければなりません。
これは文書だけでなく、モジュールのソースコードにもコメントとして
記載しなければなりません。

=begin original

Again, this should be a last resort only.  Ideally, this should never
happen, and every possible effort at cooperation and compromise should be
made before doing this.  If it does prove necessary to fork a module for
the overall health of Perl, proper credit must be given to the original
author in perpetuity and the decision should be constantly re-evaluated to
see if a remerging of the two branches is possible down the road.

=end original

繰り返しますが、これは最後の手段としてのみ使うべきです。
理想的にはこのようなことは決して起こるべきではありませんし、
こうなる前にあらゆる努力を払って協力、妥協すべきです。
Perl 全体の健全性を保つためにはどうしてもモジュールをフォークする
必要があると証明された場合も、原作者に対する適切なクレジット表示は永遠に残して
おかなければなりませんし、その決断が正しかったかを定期的に再評価し、将来的に
二つのブランチをマージしなおすことができるか確認すべきです。

=begin original

In all dealings with contributed modules, everyone maintaining Perl should
keep in mind that the code belongs to the original author, that they may
not be on perl5-porters at any given time, and that a patch is not
official unless it has been integrated into the author's copy of the
module.  To aid with this, and with points #1, #2, and #3 above, contact
information for the authors of all contributed modules should be kept with
the Perl distribution.

=end original

提供されたモジュールの扱いについて、Perl をメンテナンスするすべての人が
念頭に入れておくべきことは、そのコードは原作者に属するものであり、
いついかなるときも perl5-porters のものではないこと、パッチは作者側の
モジュールに取り込まれるまで公式のものとはみなされないことです。
そのためにも、また上記 #1、#2、#3 のためにも、提供されたすべての
モジュールの作者の連絡先を Perl のディストリビューション内に
保存しておくべきです。

=begin original

Finally, the Perl community as a whole recognizes that respect for
ownership of code, respect for artistic control, proper credit, and active
effort to prevent unintentional code skew or communication gaps is vital
to the health of the community and Perl itself.  Members of a community
should not normally have to resort to rules and laws to deal with each
other, and this document, although it contains rules so as to be clear, is
about an attitude and general approach.  The first step in any dispute
should be open communication, respect for opposing views, and an attempt
at a compromise.  In nearly every circumstance nothing more will be
necessary, and certainly no more drastic measure should be used until
every avenue of communication and discussion has failed.

=end original

最後になりますが、Perl コミュニティは、全体としては、コードの所有権を
尊重することや、アーティスティックコントロールを尊重すること、適切な
クレジット表示、意図せぬひずみやコミュニケーションギャップを防ぐ積極的な
努力をすることがコミュニティと Perl 自身の
健全性を保つ重要な鍵であることを認識していますし、コミュニティのメンバーも、
ふつうはルールや法律に訴えずともお互いに付き合っていけるはずです。
意図を明確にするためにルールが書いてありますが、この文書自体、
姿勢や一般的なアプローチについてのものです。
論争解決の第一歩はオープンなコミュニケーションであり、対立する視点に対する
敬意であり、妥協の試みであるべきです。
ほとんどどんな場合でもそれ以上のものは必要ないでしょうし、あらゆる
コミュニケーションや議論が失敗に終わるまで、それ以上の思い切った手段は
とるべきではありません。

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

(文書)

=begin original

Perl's documentation is an important resource for our users. It's
incredibly important for Perl's documentation to be reasonably coherent
and to accurately reflect the current implementation.

=end original

Perl の文書はユーザにとって重要なリソースであり、無理のない範囲で
首尾一貫していることや、現在の実装を正確に反映していることは本当に
大切なことです。

=begin original

Just as P5P collectively maintains the codebase, we collectively
maintain the documentation.  Writing a particular bit of documentation
doesn't give an author control of the future of that documentation.
At the same time, just as source code changes should match the style
of their surrounding blocks, so should documentation changes.

=end original

P5P が共同でコードベースをメンテナンスしているのと同様に、私たちは文書の
メンテナンスも共同で行っています。
文書の特定の一部を執筆したからといって、
著者としてその文書の将来を管理する権利が与えられるわけではありません。
また、ソースコードを変更するときは周辺ブロックのスタイルに
あわせるべきであるのと
同様に、文書を変更するときも周辺文書のスタイルにあわせるべきです。

=begin original

Examples in documentation should be illustrative of the concept
they're explaining.  Sometimes, the best way to show how a
language feature works is with a small program the reader can
run without modification.  More often, examples will consist
of a snippet of code containing only the "important" bits.
The definition of "important" varies from snippet to snippet.
Sometimes it's important to declare C<use strict> and C<use warnings>,
initialize all variables and fully catch every error condition.
More often than not, though, those things obscure the lesson
the example was intended to teach.

=end original

文書中の例は、そこで説明している概念を例証するものであるべきです。
言語機能の働きを示す最適なやり方として、読者が何の修正もなく実行できる小さな
プログラムを用いる場合もありますが、それよりも、「重要な」部分のみを含む
コード片を例とする方が多いです。
何がどう「重要」かはコード片によって異なります。
C<use strict> や C<use warnings> を宣言し、すべての変数を初期化して、
あらゆる例外を完璧に捕捉することが重要な場合もありますが、たいていの場合、
これらは例示しようとしているレッスンの内容をわかりにくくしてしまいます。

=begin original

As Perl is developed by a global team of volunteers, our
documentation often contains spellings which look funny
to I<somebody>.  Choice of American/British/Other spellings
is left as an exercise for the author of each bit of
documentation.  When patching documentation, try to emulate
the documentation around you, rather than changing the existing
prose.

=end original

Perl はグローバルなボランティアチームによって開発されているため、私たちの
文書には I<誰かにとっては> おかしく見えるスペルが含まれていることも
多々ありますが、アメリカ式/イギリス式/その他の綴り方の選択はその文書の
著者に任されています。
文書にパッチをあてる際には、既存の書き方を改めるのではなく、
周囲の文書のやり方にあわせるようにしてください。

=begin original

In general, documentation should describe what Perl does "now" rather
than what it used to do.  It's perfectly reasonable to include notes
in documentation about how behaviour has changed from previous releases,
but, with very few exceptions, documentation isn't "dual-life" --
it doesn't need to fully describe how all old versions used to work.

=end original

一般論として、文書には Perl が昔どう動作したかではなく、「今」どう動作するか
書くべきです。
注意書きとして、過去のリリースからどう動作が変わったかを書くのは
完全に合理的なことですが、ごく一部の例外を除いて、文書は「二重管理」
ではありませんので、過去のすべてのバージョンについてどう動いていたかを
詳細に記述する必要はありません。

=head1 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

(行動規範)

=begin original

The official forum for the development of perl is the perl5-porters mailing
list, mentioned above, and its bugtracker at GitHub.  Posting to the
list and the bugtracker is not a right: all participants in discussion are
expected to adhere to a standard of conduct.

=end original

perl の開発のための公式フォーラムは、前述の通り、
perl5-porters メーリングリストと、GitHub にあるバグトラッカーです。
リストとバグトラッカーへの投稿は権利ではありません。
議論に参加する全ての人は行動規範を遵守することが期待されています。

=over 4

=item *

=begin original

Always be civil.

=end original

いつも礼儀正しく。

=item *

=begin original

Heed the moderators.

=end original

モデレータに注意を傾ける。

=back

=begin original

Civility is simple: stick to the facts while avoiding demeaning remarks,
belittling other individuals, sarcasm, or a presumption of bad faith. It is
not enough to be factual.  You must also be civil.  Responding in kind to
incivility is not acceptable.  If you relay otherwise-unposted comments to
the list from a third party, you take responsibility for the content of
those comments, and you must therefore ensure that they are civil.


=end original

礼儀正しさは単純です: 事実を基にし、品位を下げる発言、他の人をけなすこと、
皮肉、邪推はやめましょう。
事実に基づくだけでは十分ではありません。
礼儀正しくもなければなりません。
無作法に対して同じように対応することは受け入れられません。
あなたが第三者からのリストに投稿されていないコメントを転送する場合、
あなたはそのコメントの内容について責任があるので、
それが礼儀正しいことを保証しなければなりません。

=begin original

While civility is required, kindness is encouraged; if you have any doubt about
whether you are being civil, simply ask yourself, "Am I being kind?" and aspire
to that.

=end original

礼儀正しさは要求されますが、親切さは推奨されます; 自分が礼儀正しいか
少しでも疑問に思ったら、単に自分に問いかけましょう; 「私は親切だろうか?」
そしてそれを目指しましょう。

=begin original

If the list moderators tell you that you are not being civil, carefully
consider how your words have appeared before responding in any way.  Were they
kind?  You may protest, but repeated protest in the face of a repeatedly
reaffirmed decision is not acceptable.  Repeatedly protesting about the
moderators' decisions regarding a third party is also unacceptable, as is
continuing to initiate off-list contact with the moderators about their
decisions.

=end original

もしリストのモデレータがあなたに礼儀正しくないと伝えた場合、
どのような形でも対応する前に、あなたの言葉がどのように現れたかを
慎重に考えてみてください。
それは親切でしたか?
抗議することはできますが、繰り返し再確認された決定に直面して
抗議を繰り返すことは受け入れられません。
また、第三者に関するモデレータの決定について繰り返し抗議することも、
その決定についてモデレータにリスト外で連絡を取ることも受け入れられません。

=begin original

Unacceptable behavior will result in a public and clearly identified
warning.  A second instance of unacceptable behavior from the same
individual will result in removal from the mailing list and GitHub issue
tracker, for a period of one calendar month.  The rationale for this is to
provide an opportunity for the person to change the way they act.

=end original

受け入れられない振る舞いに対しては、公の場で明確に識別できる警告が
行われます。
同じ個人からの 2 回目の受け入れられない振る舞いがあった場合は、
メーリングリストと GitHub のイシュートラッカーから除去されます;
期間は 1 暦月です。
この理由は、その個人に行動方法を変える機会を与えるためです。

=begin original

After the time-limited ban has been lifted, a third instance of
unacceptable behavior will result in a further public warning.  A fourth
or subsequent instance will result in an indefinite ban.  The rationale
is that, in the face of an apparent refusal to change behavior, we must
protect other community members from future unacceptable actions.  The
moderators may choose to lift an indefinite ban if the person in
question affirms they will not transgress again.

=end original

時間制限除去が解除された後、3 回目の受け入れられない振る舞いについては
更なる公の場での警告が行われます。
4 回目以上の場合は無期限の除去となります。
理由は、振る舞いを変えることに対する明らかな拒否に直面した場合、
私たちは将来の受け入れられない行動からその他のコミュニティメンバーを
守らなければならないからです。
問題の人物が再び規則を破らないことを確約した場合は、
モデレータは無期限の除去の解除を選択できます。

=begin original

Removals, like warnings, are public.

=end original

除去は、警告と同様、公の場で行われます。

=begin original

The list of moderators will be public knowledge.  At present, it is:
Andy Dougherty, Karen Etheridge, Ricardo Signes, Sawyer X,
Steffen Müller, Todd Rinaldo, Aaron Crane.

=end original

モデレータの一覧は公開情報です。
現在の所は:
Andy Dougherty, Karen Etheridge, Ricardo Signes, Sawyer X,
Steffen Muller, Todd Rinaldo, Aaron Crane.

=head1 CREDITS

=begin original

"Social Contract about Contributed Modules" originally by Russ Allbery E<lt>rra@stanford.eduE<gt> and the perl5-porters.

=end original

"Social Contract about Contributed Modules" originally by Russ Allbery E<lt>rra@stanford.eduE<gt> and the perl5-porters.

=begin meta

Translate: Kenichi Ishigaki
Update: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org> (5.20.1-)
Status: completed

=end meta

