
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

=begin original

perlpragma - how to write a user pragma

=end original

perlpragma - ユーザープラグマの書き方

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

A pragma is a module which influences some aspect of the compile time or run
time behaviour of Perl, such as C<strict> or C<warnings>. With Perl 5.10 you
are no longer limited to the built in pragmata; you can now create user
pragmata that modify the behaviour of user functions within a lexical scope.

=end original

プラグマは、C<strict> や C<warnings> のように、コンパイル時や実行時の Perl の
振る舞いにある種の影響を与えるモジュールです。
Perl 5.10 から、プラグマは組み込みのものに制限されません; レキシカル
スコープ内のユーザー関数の振る舞いを変えるユーザープラグマを
作れるようになりました。

=head1 A basic example

(基本的な例)

=begin original

For example, say you need to create a class implementing overloaded
mathematical operators, and would like to provide your own pragma that
functions much like C<use integer;> You'd like this code

=end original

例えば、オーバーロードされた算術演算子を実装するクラスを作る必要が
あるとして、C<use integer;> のように働く独自のプラグマを提供したいと
します; 以下のようなコードで

    use MyMaths;

    my $l = MyMaths->new(1.2);
    my $r = MyMaths->new(3.4);

    print "A: ", $l + $r, "\n";

    use myint;
    print "B: ", $l + $r, "\n";

    {
        no myint;
        print "C: ", $l + $r, "\n";
    }

    print "D: ", $l + $r, "\n";

    no myint;
    print "E: ", $l + $r, "\n";

=begin original

to give the output

=end original

以下のように出力されます

    A: 4.6
    B: 4
    C: 4.6
    D: 4
    E: 4.6

=begin original

I<i.e.>, where C<use myint;> is in effect, addition operations are forced
to integer, whereas by default they are not, with the default behaviour being
restored via C<no myint;>

=end original

I<つまり>、C<use myint;> が有効のときには加法演算子は整数に強制され、
一方デフォルトではそうではありませんし、デフォルトの振る舞いは
C<no myint;> で復元されています。

=begin original

The minimal implementation of the package C<MyMaths> would be something like
this:

=end original

C<MyMaths> パッケージの最低限の実装は以下のようなものです:

    package MyMaths;
    use v5.36;
    use myint();
    use overload '+' => sub {
        my ($l, $r) = @_;
	# Pass 1 to check up one call level from here
        if (myint::in_effect(1)) {
            int($$l) + int($$r);
        } else {
            $$l + $$r;
        }
    };

    sub new {
        my ($class, $value) = @_;
        bless \$value, $class;
    }

    1;

=begin original

Note how we load the user pragma C<myint> with an empty list C<()> to
prevent its C<import> being called.

=end original

C<import> が呼び出されないようにユーザープラグマ C<myint> を空リスト
C<()> 付きで呼び出す方法に注意してください。

=begin original

The interaction with the Perl compilation happens inside package C<myint>:

=end original

Perl コンパイラとの相互作用はパッケージ C<myint> の内側で起こります:

    package myint;

    use v5.36;

    sub import {
        $^H{"myint/in_effect"} = 1;
    }

    sub unimport {
        $^H{"myint/in_effect"} = 0;
    }

    sub in_effect {
        my $level = shift // 0;
        my $hinthash = (caller($level))[10];
        return $hinthash->{"myint/in_effect"};
    }

    1;

=begin original

As pragmata are implemented as modules, like any other module, C<use myint;>
becomes

=end original

他のモジュールと同様、プラグマもモジュールとして実装され、C<use myint;> は
以下のようになり:

    BEGIN {
        require myint;
        myint->import();
    }

=begin original

and C<no myint;> is

=end original

C<no myint;> は以下のようになります:

    BEGIN {
        require myint;
        myint->unimport();
    }

=begin original

Hence the C<import> and C<unimport> routines are called at B<compile time>
for the user's code.

=end original

従って C<import> と C<unimport> のルーチンはユーザーコードの
B<コンパイル時> に呼び出されます。

=begin original

User pragmata store their state by writing to the magical hash C<%^H>,
hence these two routines manipulate it. The state information in C<%^H> is
stored in the optree, and can be retrieved read-only at runtime with C<caller()>,
at index 10 of the list of returned results. In the example pragma, retrieval
is encapsulated into the routine C<in_effect()>, which takes as parameter
the number of call frames to go up to find the value of the pragma in the
user's script. This uses C<caller()> to determine the value of
C<$^H{"myint/in_effect"}> when each line of the user's script was called, and
therefore provide the correct semantics in the subroutine implementing the
overloaded addition.

=end original

ユーザープラグマは、マジカルなハッシュ C<%^H> に書き込むことで状態を
保持するので、これらの二つのサブルーチンはこれを操作します。
C<%^H> の状態情報は構文木に保管され、C<caller()> から返されたリストの
インデックス 10 の要素としてして実行中に読み込み専用で取得できます。
例のプラグマでは、返されたものはユーザースクリプトのプラグマの値を
見つけるために上がっていく呼び出しフレームの数をパラメータとして受け取る
C<in_effect()> ルーチンでカプセル化されます。
これはユーザーのスクリプトの各行が呼び出されるときに
C<$^H{"myint/in_effect"}> の値を決定するために C<caller()> を使うので、
オーバーロードされた加算を実装しているサブルーチン内で正しい意味論を
提供します。

=head1 Key naming

(キーの命名規則)

=begin original

There is only a single C<%^H>, but arbitrarily many modules that want
to use its scoping semantics.  To avoid stepping on each other's toes,
they need to be sure to use different keys in the hash.  It is therefore
conventional for a module to use only keys that begin with the module's
name (the name of its main package) and a "/" character.  After this
module-identifying prefix, the rest of the key is entirely up to the
module: it may include any characters whatsoever.  For example, a module
C<Foo::Bar> should use keys such as C<Foo::Bar/baz> and C<Foo::Bar/$%/_!>.
Modules following this convention all play nicely with each other.

=end original

C<%^H> は一つだけしかありませんが、そのスコープ意味論を使いたいモジュールは
任意の数があり得ます。
お互いの足を踏むことを裂けるために、ハッシュ中で異なったキーを使うように
する必要があります。
従って、モジュールはモジュールの名前 (主なパッケージの名前) と "/" 文字から
始まるキーだけを使うという慣習があります。
このモジュール識別接頭辞の後、キーの残りは全てモジュール次第です:
どんな文字でも使えます。
例えば、モジュール C<Foo::Bar> は C<Foo::Bar/baz> や
C<Foo::Bar/$%/_!> のようなキーを使うべきです。
この慣習に従っているモジュールは全て互いにうまく動作します。

=begin original

The Perl core uses a handful of keys in C<%^H> which do not follow this
convention, because they predate it.  Keys that follow the convention
won't conflict with the core's historical keys.

=end original

Perl コアは一部この規約に従わないキーで C<%^H> を使います; なぜなら
以前からあるからです。
慣習に従うキーはコアの歴史的なキーと衝突することはありません。

=head1 Implementation details

(実装の詳細)

=begin original

The optree is shared between threads.  This means there is a possibility that
the optree will outlive the particular thread (and therefore the interpreter
instance) that created it, so true Perl scalars cannot be stored in the
optree.  Instead a compact form is used, which can only store values that are
integers (signed and unsigned), strings or C<undef> - references and
floating point values are stringified.  If you need to store multiple values
or complex structures, you should serialise them, for example with C<pack>.
The deletion of a hash key from C<%^H> is recorded, and as ever can be
distinguished from the existence of a key with value C<undef> with
C<exists>.

=end original

構文木はスレッド間で共有されます。
つまり、構文木はそれを作った特定のスレッド(従ってインタプリタ実体)よりも
長生きする可能性があると言うことです; 従って、真の Perl スカラを構文木に
保管することが出来ません。
圧縮形式を使う代わりに、整数(符号付きと符号なし)、文字列、C<undef> の
いずれかの値のみを保管できます - リファレンスと浮動小数点数は
文字列化されます。
もし複数の値や複雑な構造体を保管する必要があるなら、例えば C<pack> などを
使って直列化するべきです。
C<%^H> からのハッシュキーの削除は記録され、いままで通り C<exists> を使うことで
値が C<undef> でキーが存在することと区別できます。

=begin original

B<Don't> attempt to store references to data structures as integers which
are retrieved via C<caller> and converted back, as this will not be threadsafe.
Accesses would be to the structure without locking (which is not safe for
Perl's scalars), and either the structure has to leak, or it has to be
freed when its creating thread terminates, which may be before the optree
referencing it is deleted, if other threads outlive it.

=end original

リファレンスをC<caller> 経由で取得して変換し直した整数としてデータ構造に
保管しようとしてはいけません; これはスレッドセーフではないからです。
アクセスはロックなしでの構造体に対してであり(これは Perl のスカラに対しては
安全ではありません)、構造体がメモリリークするか、作成したスレッドが終了時に
解放され、もしもし他のスレッドが長生きしすぎると、構文木が削除されたものを
参照することになります。

=begin meta

Translate: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org>
Status; completed

=end meta

