
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

URI::Heuristic - Expand URI using heuristics

=end original

uf_uristr - 経験則を使ったURIの展開

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use URI::Heuristic qw(uf_uristr);
 $u = uf_uristr("perl");             # http://www.perl.com
 $u = uf_uristr("www.sol.no/sol");   # http://www.sol.no/sol
 $u = uf_uristr("aas");              # http://www.aas.no
 $u = uf_uristr("ftp.funet.fi");     # ftp://ftp.funet.fi
 $u = uf_uristr("/etc/passwd");      # file:/etc/passwd

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This module provides functions that expand strings into real absolute
URIs using some built-in heuristics.  Strings that already represent
absolute URIs (i.e. that start with a C<scheme:> part) are never modified
and are returned unchanged.  The main use of these functions is to
allow abbreviated URIs similar to what many web browsers allow for URIs
typed in by the user.

=end original

このモジュールは組み込まれた経験則を使って文字列を実際の絶対 URI に
展開する関数を提供します。
既に絶対 URI を表している(つまり C<スキーム:> 部分から始まっている)
文字列は編集されず、変更無しに返されます。
これらの関数の主な使用法は、多くの Web ブラウザがユーザにより入力された 
URI に許していることに似ている、省略した URI を許すことです。

=begin original

The following functions are provided:

=end original

以下の関数が提供されます:

=over 4

=item uf_uristr($str)

=begin original

Tries to make the argument string
into a proper absolute URI string.  The "uf_" prefix stands for "User 
Friendly".  Under MacOS, it assumes that any string with a common URL 
scheme (http, ftp, etc.) is a URL rather than a local path.  So don't name 
your volumes after common URL schemes and expect uf_uristr() to construct 
valid file: URL's on those volumes for you, because it won't.

=end original

引数として渡された文字列を適切な絶対 URI 文字列にしようとします。
頭についている "uf_" は "User Friendly" の略です。
MacOS では、共通の URL スキーム(http、ftpなど)がついた文字列はすべて、
ローカルパスではなく URL であると仮定されます。
そこであなたのボリュームを共通のスキームをにつけた名前にしないでください、
そして uf_uristr() が正しいファイル名を組みたてることを
期待しないで下さい: それらのボリュームでの URL はあなたのものです、それは
そうでないのですから。

=item uf_uri($str)

=begin original

Works the same way as uf_uristr() but
returns a C<URI> object.

=end original

uf_uristr() と同じように機能しますが C<URI> オブジェクトを返します。

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

(環境変数)

=begin original

If the hostname portion of a URI does not contain any dots, then
certain qualified guesses are made.  These guesses are governed by
the following two environment variables:

=end original

URI のホスト名部分に一つも(ドット)が入っていなければ、特定の修飾された
答えが作られます。
これらの答えは以下の 2 つの環境変数により支配されます。

=over 10

=item COUNTRY

=begin original

The two-letter country code (ISO 3166) for your location.  If
the domain name of your host ends with two letters, then it is taken
to be the default country. See also L<Locale::Country>.

=end original

これはあなたのロケーションのための 2 文字の国コード(ISO 3166)です。
あなたのホストのドメイン名が 2 文字で終わっていれば、それがデフォルトの
country として取られます。
L<Locale::Country> も参照してください。

=item URL_GUESS_PATTERN

=begin original

Contains a space-separated list of URL patterns to try.  The string
"ACME" is for some reason used as a placeholder for the host name in
the URL provided.  Example:

=end original

空白で区切られた、試す URL パターンのリストが入っています。
文字列 "ACME" はなぜか、提供される URL でのホスト名のためのプレースホルダです。
例:

 URL_GUESS_PATTERN="www.ACME.no www.ACME.se www.ACME.com"
 export URL_GUESS_PATTERN

=begin original

Specifying URL_GUESS_PATTERN disables any guessing rules based on
country.  An empty URL_GUESS_PATTERN disables any guessing that
involves host name lookups.

=end original

URL_GUESS_PATTERN を指定すると国をベースにした回答を無効にします。
空の URL_GUESS_PATTERN はホスト名検索を含んだ回答を無効にします。

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1997-1998, Gisle Aas

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=begin meta

Translate: Hippo2000 <GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp> (1.04)
Update: Kentaro SHIRAKATA <argrath@ub32.org> (1.35)
Status: completed

=end meta

=cut

