
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

HTTP::Status - HTTP Status code processing

=end original

HTTP::Status - HTTP ステータスコード処理

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use HTTP::Status qw(:constants :is status_message);

 if ($rc != HTTP_OK) {
     print status_message($rc), "\n";
 }

 if (is_success($rc)) { ... }
 if (is_error($rc)) { ... }
 if (is_redirect($rc)) { ... }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

I<HTTP::Status> is a library of routines for defining and
classifying HTTP status codes for libwww-perl.  Status codes are
used to encode the overall outcome of an HTTP response message.  Codes
correspond to those defined in RFC 2616 and RFC 2518.

=end original

I<HTTP::Status> は libwww-perl のための HTTP ステータスコードの定義と
分類分け用の関数のライブラリです。
ステータスコードは HTTP レスポンスメッセージの全体の結果をコードにするために
使われます。
コードは RFC2616 と RFC2518 で定義されたものに対応します。

=head1 CONSTANTS

=begin original

The following constant functions can be used as mnemonic status code
names.  None of these are exported by default.  Use the C<:constants>
tag to import them all.

=end original

以下の定数関数が覚えやすいステータスコード名として使われます。
デフォルトではどれもエクスポートされません。
これら全てをインポートするには
C<:constants> タグを使ってください。

   HTTP_CONTINUE                        (100)
   HTTP_SWITCHING_PROTOCOLS             (101)
   HTTP_PROCESSING                      (102)

   HTTP_OK                              (200)
   HTTP_CREATED                         (201)
   HTTP_ACCEPTED                        (202)
   HTTP_NON_AUTHORITATIVE_INFORMATION   (203)
   HTTP_NO_CONTENT                      (204)
   HTTP_RESET_CONTENT                   (205)
   HTTP_PARTIAL_CONTENT                 (206)
   HTTP_MULTI_STATUS                    (207)
   HTTP_ALREADY_REPORTED		(208)

   HTTP_MULTIPLE_CHOICES                (300)
   HTTP_MOVED_PERMANENTLY               (301)
   HTTP_FOUND                           (302)
   HTTP_SEE_OTHER                       (303)
   HTTP_NOT_MODIFIED                    (304)
   HTTP_USE_PROXY                       (305)
   HTTP_TEMPORARY_REDIRECT              (307)

   HTTP_BAD_REQUEST                     (400)
   HTTP_UNAUTHORIZED                    (401)
   HTTP_PAYMENT_REQUIRED                (402)
   HTTP_FORBIDDEN                       (403)
   HTTP_NOT_FOUND                       (404)
   HTTP_METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED              (405)
   HTTP_NOT_ACCEPTABLE                  (406)
   HTTP_PROXY_AUTHENTICATION_REQUIRED   (407)
   HTTP_REQUEST_TIMEOUT                 (408)
   HTTP_CONFLICT                        (409)
   HTTP_GONE                            (410)
   HTTP_LENGTH_REQUIRED                 (411)
   HTTP_PRECONDITION_FAILED             (412)
   HTTP_REQUEST_ENTITY_TOO_LARGE        (413)
   HTTP_REQUEST_URI_TOO_LARGE           (414)
   HTTP_UNSUPPORTED_MEDIA_TYPE          (415)
   HTTP_REQUEST_RANGE_NOT_SATISFIABLE   (416)
   HTTP_EXPECTATION_FAILED              (417)
   HTTP_I_AM_A_TEAPOT			(418)
   HTTP_UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY            (422)
   HTTP_LOCKED                          (423)
   HTTP_FAILED_DEPENDENCY               (424)
   HTTP_NO_CODE                         (425)
   HTTP_UPGRADE_REQUIRED                (426)
   HTTP_PRECONDITION_REQUIRED		(428)
   HTTP_TOO_MANY_REQUESTS		(429)
   HTTP_REQUEST_HEADER_FIELDS_TOO_LARGE (431)
   HTTP_RETRY_WITH                      (449)

   HTTP_INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR           (500)
   HTTP_NOT_IMPLEMENTED                 (501)
   HTTP_BAD_GATEWAY                     (502)
   HTTP_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE             (503)
   HTTP_GATEWAY_TIMEOUT                 (504)
   HTTP_HTTP_VERSION_NOT_SUPPORTED      (505)
   HTTP_VARIANT_ALSO_NEGOTIATES         (506)
   HTTP_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE            (507)
   HTTP_BANDWIDTH_LIMIT_EXCEEDED        (509)
   HTTP_NOT_EXTENDED                    (510)
   HTTP_NETWORK_AUTHENTICATION_REQUIRED (511)

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=begin original

The following additional functions are provided.  Most of them are
exported by default.  The C<:is> import tag can be used to import all
the classification functions.

=end original

以下の追加の関数が提供されます。
ほとんどのものはデフォルトでエクスポートされます。
全てのクラス分け関数をインポートするために C<:is> インポートタグが使えます。

=over 4

=item status_message( $code )

=begin original

The status_message() function will translate status codes to human
readable strings. The string is the same as found in the constant
names above.  If the $code is unknown, then C<undef> is returned.

=end original

status_message() 関数はステータスコードを人間にも読める文字列に変換します。
その文字列は上記の定数名と同じです。
$code がわからないと、C<undef> が返されます。

=item is_info( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is an I<Informational> status code (1xx).  This
class of status code indicates a provisional response which can't have
any content.

=end original

C<$code> が I<情報的> なステータスコード (1xx) であれば真を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは内容をなにも持つことができない
仮のレスポンスであることを示しています。

=item is_success( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is a I<Successful> status code (2xx).

=end original

C<$code> が I<正常> なステータスコード (2xx) であれば真を返します。

=item is_redirect( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is a I<Redirection> status code (3xx). This class of
status code indicates that further action needs to be taken by the
user agent in order to fulfill the request.

=end original

C<$code> が I<リダイレクト> のステータスコード (3xx) であれば
真を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは、そのリクエストを満足するためには、
ユーザエージェントがさらに動く必要があることを示します。

=item is_error( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is an I<Error> status code (4xx or 5xx).  The function
returns TRUE for both client and server error status codes.

=end original

C<$code> が I<エラー> のステータスコード (4xx か 5xx) であれば真を返します。
この関数はクライアントエラーとサーバーエラーステータスコードの両方で
真を返します。

=item is_client_error( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is a I<Client Error> status code (4xx). This class
of status code is intended for cases in which the client seems to have
erred.

=end original

C<$code> が I<クライアントエラー> のステータスコード (4xx) であれば
真を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは、クライアントがエラーになっているように
見える場合を考えています。

=begin original

This function is B<not> exported by default.

=end original

この関数はデフォルトではエクスポートされません。

=item is_server_error( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is a I<Server Error> status code (5xx). This class
of status codes is intended for cases in which the server is aware
that it has erred or is incapable of performing the request.

=end original

C<$code> が I<サーバーエラー> のステータスコード (5xx) であれば
真を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは、サーバがそれがエラーなったことあるいは、
そのリクエストを実行できないことに気がついた場合を考えています。

=begin original

This function is B<not> exported by default.

=end original

この関数はデフォルトではエクスポートされません。

=back

=head1 BUGS

=begin original

For legacy reasons all the C<HTTP_> constants are exported by default
with the prefix C<RC_>.  It's recommended to use explicit imports and
the C<:constants> tag instead of relying on this.

=end original

歴史的な理由により、全ての C<HTTP_> 定数はデフォルトでは C<RC_> 接頭辞付きで
エクスポートされています。
これに頼らずに、明示的なインポートと C<:constants> タグを使うことを
勧めます。

=begin meta

Translate: Hippo2000 <GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp> (5.48)
Update: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org> (5.813-)
Status: completed

=end meta

