=head1 NAME

RDF::Core - RDF をハンドリングするためのオブジェクト指向 Perl モジュール


=head1 DESCRIPTION

RDF::Core has these parts:

RDF::Core の構成は次のようになっています。

=over 4

=item * B<RDF::Core::Model>

Model provides interface to store RDF statements, ask about them and retrieve them back.

Model は、RDF ステートメントを格納したり、それらについて問い合わせたり、
それらを後方検索するインタフェースを提供します。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Constants>

Defines usefule constants for the RDF processing like namespaces etc.

名前空間のような RDF を処理するための便利な定数を定義します。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Parser>

Generates statements from an RDF XML document.

RDF XML 文書からステートメントを生成します。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Model::Parser>

Model::Parser is a simple interface object to a parser. It's purpose is to provide a prototype of object accomodate ing any other parser.

Model::Parser は、パーサのためのシンプルなインタフェースオブジェクトです。
他のパーサに対応するオブジェクトのプロトタイプを提供することが目的です。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Serializer>

Serializes RDF Model into XML.

XML から RDF モデルをシリアライズします。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Model::Serializer>

Model::Serializer is an interface object for Serializer.

Model::Serializer は、シリアライザーのためのインタフェースオブジェクトです。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Storage>

An object for storing statements. There are several implementations of Storage - in memory, in a BerkeleyDB 1.x (DB_File) files and PostgreSQL database.

ステートメントを格納するためのオブジェクトです。記憶装置のいくつかの
実装があります - メモリ、BerkeleyDB 1.x(DB_File)、ファイル、そして
PostgreSQL データベース。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Enumerator>

Enumerator is a result set of statements retrieved from Model

エミュレータは、Model から検索されたステートメントの結果セットです。

=item * B<RDF::Core::Query>

An implementation of query language.

検索言語の実装

=item * B<RDF::Core::Schema>

The RDF Schema utilities.

RDF スキーマユーティリティ

=item * B<Basic elements>

RDF::Core::Statement, RDF::Core::Resource, RDF::Core::Literal, RDF::Core::Node

=back

=head1 LICENSE

This package is subject to the MPL (or the GPL alternatively).

このパッケージのライセンスは、MPL（若しくは GPL）です。

=head1 AUTHOR

Ginger Alliance, rdf@gingerall.cz

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1).

=head1 翻訳について

翻訳者：IWAI, Masaharu E<lt>iwai@alib.jpE<gt>

Perlドキュメント日本語訳 Project にて、
Perlモジュール、ドキュメントの翻訳を行っております。

L<http://perldocjp.sourceforge.jp/>,
L<http://www.freeml.com/ctrl/html/MLInfoForm/perldocjp@freeml.com>,
L<http://perldoc.jp/>


=cut

