=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Email::Sender - 電子メールを送信するためのライブラリ

=head1 VERSION

version 0.093380

=head1 OVERVIEW

=begin original

Email::Sender replaces the old and sometimes problematic Email::Send library,
which did a decent job at handling very simple email sending tasks, but was not
suitable for serious use, for a variety of reasons.

Most users will be able to use L<Email::Sender::Simple> to send mail.  Users
with more specific needs should look at the available Email::Sender::Transport
classes.

Documentation may be found in L<Email::Sender::Manual>, and new users should
start with L<Email::Sender::Manual::QuickStart>.

=end original

Email::Senderは、古くて様々な問題があるEmail::Sendライブラリを置き換えるものです。
Email::Sendは、非常に簡単に使え、適切に動いてはいましたが、様々な理由で本格的な
使用には適していませんでした。

電子メールを送信する用途としては、大半の場合にはL<Email::Sender::Simple>が適しているでしょう。 
特定の用途では、Email::Sender::Transportクラスの使用を検討してください。

L<Email::Sender::Manual>にドキュメントがあります。
また、すぐに使い始めたい人にはL<Email::Sender::Manual::QuickStart>も用意しています。

=head1 IMPLEMENTING

=begin original

Email::Sender itelf is a Moose role.  Any class that implements Email::Sender
is required to provide a method called C<send>.  This method should accept any
input that can be understood by L<Email::Abstract>, followed by a hashref
containing C<to> and C<from> arguments to be used as the envelope.  The method
should return an L<Email::Sender::Success> object on success or throw an
L<Email::Sender::Failure> on failure.

=end original

Email::Sender自身はMooseロールです。Email::Senderを実装するクラスは、
C<send>を呼ぶメソッドを提供する必要があります。このメソッドは、
電子メールを作成するときにハッシュリファレンスで構成されたC<to>とC<from>引数を使った
L<Email::Abstract>で理解できるどのような入力も受け入れるべきです。

=head1 AUTHOR

  Ricardo Signes <rjbs@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2009 by Ricardo Signes.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.


=cut

