
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

DBD::ODBC::Changes - DBD::ODBCへの重要な変更のログ

=cut

=head1 Todo

 このリストを簡潔に作っていくつもりです。
 ++ 完了 ++ ODBC version 3.0をデフォルトにする!
 ++ 完了 ++ より多くのDBD::ODBC独自の属性/関数のドキュメント
 配列パラメータ・バインディングの追加(DBI仕様毎に)
 selectを早くするため行のキャッシング/複数行の取り出しの追加
 複数ステートメント・ハンドルが正しい行の数を保障するかについてのよりよい/多くのテスト
 全ての問い合わせが正しい行の数を保障するかについてのよりよい/多くのテスト
 SQLExecDirect/doについてのよりよいテスト
 ++ 完了 ++ SQL_VARCHARの代わりにSQLDescribeParamを使うようにデフォルトの動きを変更。

 Windows用のOracleのODBCドライバがDateバイデンディング問題を解決しかたのチェックの継続

=head1 変更履歴

=over 4

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 1.05 March 14, 2003

 Cleaned up Makefile.PL and added Informix support thanks to Jonathan Leffler (see README.informix)
 Added nicer error message when attempting to do anything while the database is disconnected. 
 Fixed fetchrow_hashref('NAME_uc | NAME_lc') with odbc_more_results.
 Added exporter to allow perl -MDBD::ODBC=9999 command line to determine version
 Fixed for building with DBI 1.33 and greater
 Removed all C++ style comments
 Ensured files are in Unix format, with the exception of the README type information and Makefile.PL

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 1.04 January 24, 2003

 It seems that case insensitive string comparison with a limit causes problems for
 multiple platforms.  strncmpi, strncasecmp, _strcmpin are all functions hit and
 it seems to be a hit-or-miss.  Hence, I rewrote it to upper case the string
 then do strncmp, which should be safe...sheesh.  A simple thing turned into
 a headache...

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 1.03 January 17, 2003

 Add automatic detection of DRIVER= or DSN= to add user id and password to
 connect string.


=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 1.02 January 6, 2003

 Fix to call finish() automatically if execute is re-called in a loop 
(and test in t/02simple.t to ensure it's fixed)
 
 Augmented error message when longs are truncated to help users determine where
 to look for help.

 Fixes for build under Win32 with Perl5.8.  


=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 1.01 December 9, 2002

 Forgot to fix require DBI 1.201 in ODBC.pm to work for perl 5.8.  Fixed

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 1.00 December 8, 2002

 (Please see all changes since version 0.43)

 Updated Makefile.PL to handle SQL_Wxxx types correctly with unixODBC and linking 
 directly with EasySoft OOB.  Note that I could not find where iODBC defines SQL_WLONG_VARCHAR,
 so I'm not sure it's fixed on all other platforms.  Should not have been a problem under
 Win32...

 Found that the fix in _18 was only enabled if debug enabled and it broke something else.
 removed the fix.

 Updated Makefile.PL to use DBI version 1.21 instead of 1.201 to facilitate builds under
 latest development versions of Perl.

 Updated code to use the *greater* of the column display size and the column length for
 allocating column buffers.  This *should* workaround a problem with DBD::ODBC and the 
 Universe database.

 Added code thanks to Michael Riber to handle SQLExecDirect instead of SQLPrepare.  There are 
 two ways to get this:
        $dbh->prepare($sql, { odbc_execdirect => 1}); 
 and
        $dbh->{odbc_execdirect} = 1;
 When $dbh->prepare() is called with the attribute "ExecDirect" set to a non-zero value 
 dbd_st_prepare do NOT call SQLPrepare, but set the sth flag odbc_exec_direct to 1.
 
 Fixed numeric value binding when binding non-integral values.  Now lets the driver 
 or the database handle the conversion.

 Fixed makefile.pl generation of makefile to force the ODBC directory first in the 
 include list to help those installing ODBC driver managers on systems which 
 already have ODBC drivers in their standard include path.

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_18 September 26, 2002

 Updated MANIFEST to include more of the mytest/* files (examples, tests)
 Fixed problem when attempting to get NUM_OF_FIELDS after execute returns no rows/columns.

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_17 August 26, 2002

 More fixes for multiple result sets.  Needed to clear the DBIc_FIELDS_AV
 when re-executing the multiple-result set stored procedure/query.

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_16 August 26, 2002

 Updated to fix output parameters with multiple result sets.  The output
 parameters are not set until the last result set has been retrieved.

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_15 August 20, 2002

 Updated for new DBIc_STATE macros (all debug, as it turned out) to be thread safer in the long run

 Updated for the new DBIc_LOGFP macros

 Added CLONE method

 Fix for SQL Server where multiple result sets being returned from a stored proc,
 where one of the result sets was empty (insert/update).
 
 Added new attribute odbc_force_rebind, which forces DBD::ODBC to
 check recheck for new result sets every execute.  This is only
 really necessary if you have a stored procedure which returns different
 result sets with each execute, given the same "prepare".  Many times
 this will be automatically set by DBD::ODBC, however, if there is only
 one result set in the stored proc, but it can differ with each call,
 then DBD::ODBC will not know to set it. 

 Updated the DBD::ODBC POD documentation to document DBD::ODBC 
 private attributes and usage.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_14 August 13, 2002

Added support to handle (better) DBI begin_work().

Fix for binding undef parameters on SQL Server.

Fix bug when connecting twice in the same script.  Trying to set the environment ODBC version
twice against the same henv caused an error.

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_13 August 9, 2002

Workaround problem with iODBC where SQLAllocHandleStd is not present in iODBC.
Made Changes file accessible via perldoc DBD::ODBC::Changes.  In the near future
the change log will be removed from here and put in changes to tidy up a bit.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_12 August 9, 2002

Fixed global destruction access violation (which was seemingly random).
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_11 August 8, 2002

Updated manifest to include more samples.
Working on checking for leaks on Linux, where I might get more information about
the process memory.

Working on fixing problems with MS SQL Server binding parameters.  It seems that SQLServer
gets "confused" if you bind a NULL first.  In "older" (SQLServer 2000 initial release) versions
of the driver, it would truncate char fields.  In "newer" versions of the SQL Server
driver, it seems to only truncate dates (actually, round them to the nearest minute).  If you have
problems in the SQL Server tests, please upgrade your driver to the latest version on
Microsoft's website (MDAC 2.7 or above) http://www.microsoft.com/data

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_10 July 30, 2002

Added database specific tests to ensure things are working.  Some of the tests may
not work for all people or may not be desirable.  I have tried to keep them as
safe as possible, but if they don't work, please let me know.

Added support for the internal function GetFunctions to handle ODBC 3's
SQL_API_ODBC3_ALL_FUNCTIONS.  Would have caused a memory overwrite on the
stack if it was called. 


=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_9 July 30, 2002

Fixed bug in procedure handling for SQLServer.  Was not re-describing the result sets
if the SQLMoreResults in the execute needs to be called.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_8 July 25, 2002

Fixed bug in tracing code when binding an undef parameter which did not
happen to have a valid buffer with tracing level >= 2

Fixed bug when binding undef after a valid data bind on a timestamp.  The
Scale value was being calculated based upon the string that had been bound
prior to the bind of the undef and if that had a sub-second value, then
the scale would be set to the wrong value...
 I.e. bind_param(1, '2000-05-17 00:01:00.250', SQL_TYPE_TIMESTAMP) then
       execute
      bind_param(1, undef, SQL_TYPE_TIMESTAMP) then

Fixed SQL Server issue when binding a null and the length was set to 0 instead of 1

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_7 July 25, 2002

Adding support for array binding, but not finished.

Fixed bug where SqlServer Stored procedures which perform INSERT would not correctly
return a result set.  Thanks to Joe Tebelskis for finding it and Martin Evans for
supplying a fix.

Fixed bug where binding the empty string would cuase a problem.  Fixed and added
test in t/07bind.t.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_6 July 24, 2002

Added support for new DBI ParamValues feature.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_5 July 23, 2002

Added odbc_err_handler and odbc_async_exec thanks to patches by David L. Good.
See example in mytest/testerrhandler.pl

Here's the notes about it:

> I've implemented two separate functions.  The first is an "error
> handler" similar to that in DBD::Sybase.  The error handler can be used
> to intercept error and status messages from the server.  It is the only
> way (at least currently) that you can retrieve non-error status messages
> when execution is successful.
>
> To use the error handler, set the "odbc_err_handler" attribute on
> your database handle to a reference to a subroutine that will act
> as the error handler.  This subroutine will be passed two args, the
> SQLSTATE and the error message.  If the subroutine returns 0, the
> error message will be otherwise ignored.  If it returns non-zero,
> the error message will be processed normally.
>
> The second function implemented is asynchronous execution.  It's only
> useful for retrieving server messages with an error handler during an
> execute() that takes a long time (such as a DBCC on a large database) ODBC
> doesn't have the concept of a callback routine like Sybase's DBlib/CTlib
> does, so asynchronous execution is needed to be able to get the server
> messages before the SQL statement is done processing.
>
> To use asynchronous execution, set the "odbc_async_exec" attribute on
> your database handle to 1.  Not all ODBC drivers support asynchronous
> execution.  To see if yours does, set odbc_async_exec to 1 and then check
> it's value.  If the value is 1, your ODBC driver can do asynchronous
> execution.  If the value is 0, your ODBC driver cannot.

=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_4 July 22, 2002

More fixes for DB2 tests and timestamp handling.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_3 July 22, 2002

Changes to internal timestamp type handling and test structure to ensure tests
work for all platforms.  DB2 was giving me fits due to bad assumptions.  Thanks
to Martin Evans (again) for help in identifying the problems and helping research
solutions.  This includes the scale/precision values to correctly store full timestamps.
 
=item Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.45_2 July 19, 2002

Moving API usage to ODBC 3.0 specifications.  With lots of help from Martin Evans (again!).
Thanks Martin!!!!!

=back
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.44 July 18, 2002

.44 was never officially released.
Fix for do() and execute to handle DB2 correctly.  Patch/discovery thanks to Martin Evans.
Partly moving towards defaulting to ODBC 3.x standards.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.43 July 18, 2002

 Fix for FoxPro (and potentially other) Drivers!!!!!

 Add support for DBI column_info

 Fix for binding undef value which comes from dereferencing hash

 Fix to make all bound columns word (int) aligned in the buffer.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.42 July 8, 2002

 Added patches to the tests to support ActiveState's automated build process.

 Fix ping() to try SQLTables for a test, instead of a strange query.  

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.41 April 15, 2002

 Fixed problem where SQLDescribeParam would fail (probably
 bug in ODBC driver).  Now reverts to SQL_VARCHAR if that
 happens, instead of failing the query.

 Fixed error report when using Oracle's driver.  There is
 a known problem.  Left the error on the test, but added
 warning indicating it's a known problem.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.40 April 12, 2002

 Most significant change is the change in the default binding
 type which forces DBD::ODBC to attempt to determine the bind
 type if one is not passed.  I decided to make this the default
 behavior to make things as simple as possible.

Fixed connection code put in 0.39 to work correctly.

 Two minor patches for building, one for Cygwin one
 if both iODBC and unixODBC libraries are installed.
 Probably need better command line on this, but if 
 someone has the problem, please let me know (and 
 hopefully send a patch with it).

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.39 March 12, 2002
 
 See mytest/longbin.pl for demonstration of inserting and retrieving
 long binary files to/from the db.  Uses MD5 algorithm to verify data.
 Please do some similar test(s) with your database before using it
 in production.  The various bind types are different for each database!

 Finally removed distribution of old iODBC.  See www.iodbc.org or
 www.unixodbc.org for newer/better versions of the ODBC driver
 manager for Unix (and others?). 

 Added ability to force ODBC environment version.
 
 Fix to SQLColAttributes.

 Changes to connect sequence to provide better error
 messages for those using DSN-less connections.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.38 February 12, 2002

 Fixed do function (again) thanks to work by Martin Evans.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.37 February 10, 2002

 Patches for get_info where return type is string.  Patches
 thanks to Steffen Goldner.  Thanks Steffen!

 Patched get_info to NOT attempt to get data for SQL_DRIVER_HSTMT
 and SQL_DRIVER_HDESC as they expect data in and have limited value
 (IMHO).

 Further fixed build for ODBC 2.x drivers.  The new SQLExecDirect
 code had SQLAllocHandle which is a 3.x function, not a 2.x function.
 Sigh.  I should have caught that the first time.  Signed, the Mad-and-
 not-thorough-enough-patcher.

 Additionally, a random core dump occurred in the tests, based upon the
 new SQLExecDirect code.  This has been fixed.
 
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.36 February 10, 2002

 Fixed build for ODBC 2.x drivers.  The new SQLExecDirect code
 had SQLFreeHandle which is a 3.x function, not a 2.x function.
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.35 February 9, 2002

 Fixed (finally) multiple result sets with differing
 numbers of columns.  The final fix was to call
 SQLFreeStmt(SQL_UNBIND) before repreparing
 the statement for the next query.

 Added more to the multi-statement tests to ensure
 the data retrieved was what was expected.

 Now, DBD::ODBC overrides DBI's do to call SQLExecDirect
 for simple statements (those without parameters).
 Please advise if you run into problems.  Hopefully,
 this will provide some small speed improvement for
 simple "do" statements.  You can also call
 $dbh->func($stmt, ExecDirect).  I'm not sure this has
 great value unless you need to ensure SQLExecDirect
 is being called.  Patches thanks to Merijn Broeren.
 Thanks Merijn!
   
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.34 February 7, 2002
 
 Further revamped tests to attempt to determine if SQLDescribeParam
 will work to handle the binding types.  The t/08bind.t attempts
 to determine if SQLDescribeParam is supported.  note that Oracle's
 ODBC driver under NT doesn't work correctly when binding dates
 using the ODBC date formatting {d } or {ts }.  So, test #3 will
 fail in t/08bind.t

 New support for primary_key_info thanks to patches by Martin Evans.
 New support for catalog, schema, table and table_type in table_info
 thanks to Martin Evans.  Thanks Martin for your work and your
 continuing testing, suggestions and general support!

 Support for upcoming dbi get_info.
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.33_3 February 4, 2002

 Revamped tests to include tests for multiple result sets.
 The tests are ODBC driver platform specific and will be skipped
 for drivers which do not support multiple result sets.
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.33_2 February 4, 2002

 Finally tested new binding techniques with SQL Server 2000,
 but there is a nice little bug in their MDAC and ODBC
 drivers according to the knowledge base article # Q273813, titled

   "FIX: "Incorrect Syntax near the Keyword 'by' "
   Error Message with Column Names of "C", "CA" or "CAS" (Q273813)

 DBD::ODBC now does not name any of the columns A, B, C, or D
 they are now COL_A, COL_B, COL_C, COL_D.

 *** NOTE: *** I AM STRONGLY CONSIDERING MAKING THE NEW
 BINDING the default for future versions.  I do not believe
 it will break much existing code (if any) as anyone binding
 to non VARCHAR (without the ODBC driver doing a good conversion
 from the VARCHAR) will have a problem.  It may be subtle, however,
 since much code will work, but say, binding dates may not with
 some drivers.
   
 Please comment soon...
   
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.33_1 February 4, 2002

*** WARNING: ***
 
 Changes to the binding code to allow the use of SQLDescribeParam
 to determine if the type of column being bound.  This is
 experimental and activated by setting
 
  $dbh->{odbc_default_bind_type} = 0; # before creating the query...

 Currently the default value of odbc_default_bind_type = SQL_VARCHAR
 which mimicks the current behavior.  If you set
 odbc_default_bind_type to 0, then SQLDescribeParam will be
 called to determine the columen type.  Not ALL databases
 handle this correctly.  For example, Oracle returns
 SQL_VARCHAR for all types and attempts to convert to the
 correct type for us.  However, if you use the ODBC escaped
 date/time format such as: {ts '1998-05-13 00:01:00'} then
 Oracle complains.  If you bind this with a SQL_TIMESTAMP type,
 however, Oracle's ODBC driver will parse the time/date correctly.
 Use at your own risk!

 Fix to dbdimp.c to allow quoted identifiers to begin/end
 with either " or '.
 The following will not be treated as if they have a bind placeholder:
   "isEstimated?"
   '01-JAN-1987 00:00:00'
   'Does anyone insert a ?'

                                    
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.32 January 22, 2002

 More SAP patches to Makfile.PL to eliminate the call to Data Sources

 A patch to the test (for SAP and potentially others), to allow
 fallback to SQL_TYPE_DATE in the tests
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.31 January 18, 2002

 Added SAP patches to build directly against SAP driver instead of
 driver manager thanks to Flemming Frandsen (thanks!)

 Added support to fix ping for Oracle8.  May break other databases,
 so please report this as soon as possible.  The downside is that
 we need to actually execute the dummy query.
 

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.30 January 8, 2002

 Added ping patch for Solid courtesy of Marko Asplund

 Updated disconnect to rollback if autocommit is not on.
 This should silence some errors when disconnecting.

 Updated SQL_ROWSET_SIZE attribute.  Needed to force it to
 odbc_SQL_ROWSET_SIZE to obey the DBI rules.

 Added odbc_SQL_DRIVER_ODBC_VER, which obtains the version of
 the Driver upon connect.  This internal capture of the version is
 a read-only attributed and is used during array binding of parameters.
 
 Added odbc_ignore_named_placeholders attribute to facilicate
 creating triggers within SAPDB and Oracle, to name two. The
 syntax in these DBs is to allow use of :old and :new to
 access column values before and after updates.  Example:

 $dbh->{odbc_ignore_named_placeholders} = 1; # set it for all future statements
                                          # ignores :foo, :new, etc, but not :1 or ?
 $dbh->do("create or replace etc :new.D = sysdate etc");
 

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.29 August 22, 2001

 Cygwin patches from Neil Lunn (untested by me).  Thanks Neil!
 
SQL_ROWSET_SIZE attribute patch from Andrew Brown 
> There are only 2 additional lines allowing for the setting of
> SQL_ROWSET_SIZE as db handle option.
>
> The purpose to my madness is simple. SqlServer (7 anyway) by default
> supports only one select statement at once (using std ODBC cursors).
> According to the SqlServer documentation you can alter the default setting
> of
> three values to force the use of server cursors - in which case multiple
> selects are possible.
>
> The code change allows for:
> $dbh->{SQL_ROWSET_SIZE} = 2;    # Any value > 1
>
> For this very purpose.
>
> The setting of SQL_ROWSET_SIZE only affects the extended fetch command as
> far as I can work out and thus setting this option shouldn't affect
> DBD::ODBC operations directly in any way.
>
> Andrew
>

VMS and other patches from Martin Evans (thanks!)

[1] a fix for Makefile.PL to build DBD::ODBC on OpenVMS.

[2] fix trace message coredumping after SQLDriverConnect

[3] fix call to SQLCancel which fails to pass the statement handle properly.

[4] consume diagnostics after SQLDriverConnect/SQLConnect call or they remain
    until the next error occurs and it then looks confusing (this is due to
    ODBC spec for SQLError). e.g. test 02simple returns a data truncated error
    only now instead of all the informational diags that are left from the
    connect call, like the "database changed", "language changed" messages you
    get from MS SQL Server.

Replaced C++ style comments with C style to support more platforms more easily.

Fixed bug which use the single quote (') instead of a double quote (") for "literal" column names.  This
   helped when having a colon (:) in the column name.

Fixed bug which would cause DBD::ODBC to core-dump (crash) if DBI tracing level was greater than 3.

Fixed problem where ODBC.pm would have "use of uninitialized variable" if calling DBI's type_info.

Fixed problem where ODBC.xs *may* have an overrun when calling SQLDataSources. 

Fixed problem with DBI 1.14, where fprintf was being called instead of PerlIO_printf for debug information

Fixed problem building with unixODBC per patch from Nick Gorham   

Added ability to bind_param_inout() via patches from Jeremy Cooper.  Haven't figured out a good, non-db specific
   way to test.  My current test platform attempts to determine the connected database type via
   ugly hacks and will test, if it thinks it can.  Feel free to patch and send me something...Also, my
   current Oracle ODBC driver fails miserably and dies.

Updated t/02simple.t to not print an error, when there is not one.
   
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.28 March 23, 2000

Added support for SQLSpecialColumns thanks to patch provided by Martin J. Evans [martin@easysoft.com]

Fixed bug introduced in 0.26 which was introduced of SQLMoreResults was not supported by the driver.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.27 March 8, 2000

Examined patch for ping method to repair problem reported by Chris Bezil.  Thanks Chris!

Added simple test for ping method working which should identify this in the future.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.26 March 5, 2000

Put in patch for returning only positive rowcounts from dbd_st_execute.  The original patch
was submitted by Jon Smirl and put back in by David Good.  Reasoning seems sound, so I put it
back in.  However, any databases that return negative rowcounts for specific reasons,
will no longer do so.

Put in David Good's patch for multiple result sets.  Thanks David!  See mytest\moreresults.pl for
an example of usage.

Added readme.txt in iodbcsrc explaining an issue there with iODBC 2.50.3 and C<data_sources>.

Put in rudimentary cancel support via SQLCancel.  Call $sth->cencel to utilize.  However, it is largely
untested by me, as I do not have a good sample for this yet.  It may come in handy with threaded
perl, someday or it may work in a signal handler.
   
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.25 March 4, 2000

Added conditional compilation for SQL_WVARCHAR and SQL_WLONGVARCHAR.  If they
are not defined by your driver manager, they will not be compiled in to the code.
If you would like to support these types on some platforms, you may be able to
 #define SQL_WVARCHAR (-9)
 #define SQL_WLONGVARCHAR (-10)

Added more long tests with binding in t\09bind.t.  Note use of bind_param!
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.24 February 24, 2000

Fixed Test #13 in 02simple.t.  Would fail, improperly, if there was only one data source defined.

Fixed (hopefully) SQL Server 7 and ntext type "Out of Memory!" errors via patch from Thomas Lowery.  Thanks Thomas!

Added more support for Solid to handle the fact that it does not support data_sources nor SQLDriverConnect.
 Patch supplied by Samuli Karkkainen [skarkkai@woods.iki.fi].  Thanks!  It's untested by me, however.

Added some information from Adam Curtin about a bug in iodbc 2.50.3's data_sources.  See
   iodbcsrc\readme.txt.

Added information in this pod from Stephen Arehart regarding DSNLess connections.

Added fix for sp_prepare/sp_execute bug reported by Paul G. Weiss.

Added some code for handling a hint on disconnect where the user gets an error for not committing.
 
=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.22 September 8, 1999

Fixed for threaded perl builds.  Note that this was tested only on Win32, with no threads in use and using DBI 1.13.
Note, for ActiveState/PERL_OBJECT builds, DBI 1.13_01 is required as of 9/8/99.  
If you are using ActiveState's perl, this can be installed by using PPM.


=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.21 

Thanks to all who provided patches!

Added ability to connect to an ODBC source without prior creation of DSN.  See mytest/contest.pl for example with MS Access.
(Also note that you will need documentation for your ODBC driver -- which, sadly, can be difficult to find).

Fixed case sensitivity in tests.

Hopefully fixed test #4 in t/09bind.t.  Updated it to insert the date column and updated it to find the right
type of the column.  However, it doesn't seem to work on my Linux test machine, using the OpenLink drivers 
with MS-SQL Server (6.5).  It complains about binding the date time.  The same test works under Win32 with 
SQL Server 6.5, Oracle 8.0.3 and MS Access 97 ODBC drivers.  Hmmph.

Fixed some binary type issues (patches from Jon Smirl)

Added SQLStatistics, SQLForeignKeys, SQLPrimaryKeys (patches from Jon Smirl)
Thanks (again), Jon, for providing the build_results function to help reduce duplicate code!

Worked on LongTruncOk for Openlink drivers.

Note: those trying to bind variables need to remember that you should use the following syntax:

        use DBI;
        ...
        $sth->bind_param(1, $str, DBI::SQL_LONGVARCHAR);

Added support for unixodbc (per Nick Gorham)
Added support for OpenLinks udbc (per Patrick van Kleef)
Added Support for esodbc (per Martin Evans)
Added Support for Easysoft (per Bob Kline)

Changed table_info to produce a list of views, too.
Fixed bug in SQLColumns call.
Fixed blob handling via patches from Jochen Wiedmann.
Added data_sources capability via snarfing code from DBD::Adabas (Jochen Wiedmann)

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.20 August 14, 1998

SQLColAttributes fixes for SQL Server and MySQL. Fixed tables method
by renaming to new table_info method. Added new tyoe_info_all method.
Improved Makefile.PL support for Adabase.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.19

Added iODBC source code to distribution.Fall-back to using iODBC header
files in some cases.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.18

Enhancements to build process. Better handling of errors in
error handling code.

=head2 Changes in DBD::ODBC 0.17 

This release is mostly due to the good work of Jeff Urlwin.
My eternal thanks to you Jeff.

Fixed "SQLNumResultCols err" on joins and 'order by' with some
drivers (see Microsoft Knowledge Base article #Q124899).
Thanks to Paul O'Fallon for that one.

Added more (probably incomplete) support for unix ODBC in Makefile.PL

Increased default SQL_COLUMN_DISPLAY_SIZE and SQL_COLUMN_LENGTH to 2000
for drivers that don't provide a way to query them dynamically. Was 100!

When fetch reaches the end-of-data it automatically frees the internal
ODBC statement handle and marks the DBI statement handle as inactive
(thus an explicit 'finish' is *not* required).

Also:

  LongTruncOk for Oracle ODBC (where fbh->datalen < 0)
  Added tracing into SQLBindParameter (help diagnose oracle odbc bug)
  Fixed/worked around bug/result from Latest Oracle ODBC driver where in
     SQLColAttribute cbInfoValue was changed to 0 to indicate fDesc had a value
  Added work around for compiling w/ActiveState PRK (PERL_OBJECT)
  Updated tests to include date insert and type
  Added more "backup" SQL_xxx types for tests                                  
  Updated bind test to test binding select
  NOTE: bind insert fails on Paradox driver (don't know why)

Added support for: (see notes below)

  SQLGetInfo       via $dbh->func(xxx, GetInfo)
  SQLGetTypeInfo   via $dbh->func(xxx, GetTypeInfo)
  SQLDescribeCol   via $sth->func(colno, DescribeCol)
  SQLColAttributes via $sth->func(xxx, colno, ColAttributes)
  SQLGetFunctions  via $dbh->func(xxx, GetFunctions)
  SQLColumns       via $dbh->func(catalog, schema, table, column, 'columns')

Fixed $DBI::err to reflect the real ODBC error code
which is a 5 char code, not necessarily numeric.

Fixed fetches when LongTruncOk == 1.

Updated tests to pass more often (hopefully 100% <G>)

Updated tests to test long reading, inserting and the LongTruncOk attribute.

Updated tests to be less driver specific.  

They now rely upon SQLGetTypeInfo I<heavily> in order to create the tables.
The test use this function to "ask" the driver for the name of the SQL type
to correctly create long, varchar, etc types.  For example, in Oracle the
SQL_VARCHAR type is VARCHAR2, while MS Access uses TEXT for the SQL Name.  
Again, in Oracle the SQL_LONGVARCHAR is LONG, while in Access it's MEMO.
The tests currently handle this correctly (at least with Access and Oracle,
MS SQL server will be tested also).

=cut
