
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

File::MMagic - ファイルの種類を推測します

=head1 概要

  use File::MMagic;
  use FileHandle;

  $mm = new File::MMagic; # 内部のmagicファイルを利用する
  # $mm = File::MMagic->new('/etc/magic'); # 外部のmagicファイルを使う
  # $mm = File::MMagic->new('/usr/share/etc/magic'); # Debianを使っているのであれば
  $res = $mm->checktype_filename("/somewhere/unknown/file");

  $fh = new FileHandle "< /somewhere/unknown/file2";
  $res = $mm->checktype_filehandle($fh);

  $fh->read($data, 0x8564);
  $res = $mm->checktype_contents($data);

=head1 概要

このperlライブラリはファイル名そして/あるいはファイルハンドルから
ファイルの種類を推測するためperl5オブジェクトを利用します。

=head1 説明

checktype_filename(), checktype_filehandle() そして checktype_contentsは
MIMEメディア・フォーマットでファイルの種類が入った文字列を返します。

=head1 メソッド

=over 4

=item File::MMagic->new()

=item File::MMagic->new( $filename )

モジュールを初期化します。ファイル名が与えられなければ、File::MMagicに
格納されている秘技(=magic number)が使われます。

=item $mm->addSpecials

もしファイルの種類が秘技(=magic number)で判定できなければ、ここで定義する
ことができる追加の正規表現に基づいた追加のチェックが行われます。
最初の引数はファイルタイプ、残りの引数は1つあるいはそれ以上の正規表現に
なります。

デフォルトでは、message/news, message/rfc822,text/html, text/x-roffの
ためにチェックが行われます。

=item $mm->removeSpecials

特殊な正規表現を削除します。1つあるいは複数のファイルタイプを指定してください。
もし何もファイルタイプが指定されなければ、全ての特殊な正規表現が削除されます。

削除されたエントリが入ったハッシュを返します。

=item $mm->addFileExts

ファイルタイプが秘技(=magic number)により判定することができなければ、
ファイルの拡張子(実際には正規表現)に基づいた追加のチェックが行われます。
2つの引数を指定しなければなりません:ファイル名のパターンと
対応するファイルタイプ

デフォルトでは、application/x-compress,application/x-bzip2, 
application/x-gzip, text/html, text/plainのチェックが行われます。

=item $mm->removeFileExts

ファイル名パターンのチェックを削除します。1つあるいは複数のパターンを
指定してください。パターンが指定されなければ、全てが削除されます。

削除されたエントリが入ったハッシュが返されます。

=item $mm->addMagicEntry

新しいマジックのエントリをオブジェクトに追加します。フォーマットはmagic(5)
ファイルと同じです。

  Ex.
  # エントリの追加
  $mm->addMagicEntry("0\tstring\tabc\ttext/abc");
  # サブエントリ付きのエントリを追加
  $mm->addMagicEntry("0\tstring\tdef\t");
  $mm->addMagicEntry(">10\tstring\tghi\ttext/ghi");

=item $mm->readMagicHandle

=item $mm->checktype_filename

=item $mm->checktype_magic

=item $mm->checktype_contents

=head1 著作権(=COPYRIGHT)

(原文のまま)

This program is originated from file.kulp that is a production of The
Unix Reconstruction Projct.
   <http://language.perl.com/ppt/index.html>
Copyright (c) 1999 NOKUBI Takatsugu <knok@daionet.gr.jp>.

There is no warranty for the program.

This product includes software developed by the Apache Group
for use in the Apache HTTP server project (http://www.apache.org/).

License for the program is followed the original software. The license is
below.

This program is free and open software. You may use, copy, modify, distribute
and sell this program (and any modified variants) in any way you wish,
provided you do not restrict others to do the same, except for the following
consideration.

I read some of Ian F. Darwin's BSD C implementation, to
try to determine how some of this was done since the specification
is a little vague.  I don't believe that this perl version could
be construed as an "altered version", but I did grab the tokens for
identifying the hard-coded file types in names.h and copied some of
the man page.

Here's his notice:

 * Copyright (c) Ian F. Darwin, 1987.
 * Written by Ian F. Darwin.
 *
 * This software is not subject to any license of the American Telephone
 * and Telegraph Company or of the Regents of the University of California.
 *
 * Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose on
 * any computer system, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject
 * to the following restrictions:
 *
 * 1. The author is not responsible for the consequences of use of this
 *    software, no matter how awful, even if they arise from flaws in it.
 *
 * 2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by
 *    explicit claim or by omission.  Since few users ever read sources,
 *    credits must appear in the documentation.
 *
 * 3. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
 *    misrepresented as being the original software.  Since few users
 *    ever read sources, credits must appear in the documentation.
 *
 * 4. This notice may not be removed or altered.

The following is the Apache License. This program contains the magic file
that derived from the Apache HTTP Server.

 * Copyright (c) 1995-1999 The Apache Group.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 *    distribution.
 *
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the Apache Group
 *    for use in the Apache HTTP server project (http://www.apache.org/)."
 *
 * 4. The names "Apache Server" and "Apache Group" must not be used to
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
 *    apache@apache.org.
 *
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache"
 *    nor may "Apache" appear in their names without prior written
 *    permission of the Apache Group.
 *
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
 *    acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the Apache Group
 *    for use in the Apache HTTP server project (http://www.apache.org/)."
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE APACHE GROUP ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE GROUP OR
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


=head1 翻訳者

川合 孝典(GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp)

