
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

Class::DBI::mysql - Extensions to Class::DBI for MySQL

Class::DBI::mysql - MySQL用のClass::DBI拡張

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  package Film;
  use base 'Class::DBI::mysql';
  __PACKAGE__->set_db('Main', 'dbi:mysql:dbname', 'user', 'password');
  __PACKAGE__->set_up_table("film");

  __PACKAGE__->autoinflate(dates => 'Time::Piece');

  # Somewhere else ...

  my $type = $class->column_type('column_name');
  my @allowed = $class->enum_vals('column_name');

  my $tonights_viewing  = Film->retrieve_random;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an extension to Class::DBI, containing several functions and
optimisations for the MySQL database. Instead of setting Class::DBI
as your base class, use this instead.

これはMySQLデータベースの為に幾つかの機能と最適化を含んだ
Class::DBIの拡張です。
Class::DBIに代わってこのクラスをベースクラスとして設定して下さい。

=head1 METHODS

=head2 set_up_table

        __PACKAGE__->set_up_table("table_name");

Traditionally, to use Class::DBI, you have to set up the columns:

伝統的に、Class::DBIを使用する際、あなたはカラムをセットしなければなりません:

        __PACKAGE__->columns(All => qw/list of columns/);
        __PACKAGE__->columns(Primary => 'column_name');

Whilst this allows for more flexibility if you're going to arrange your
columns into a variety of groupings, sometimes you just want to create the
'all columns' list. Well, this information is really simple to extract
from MySQL itself, so why not just use that?

もしあなたがカラムを様々な組み合わせでアレンジしたい場合
より柔軟にこれを考慮しますが、
時折、あなたは'全てのカラム'のリストを作成することを望んでいます。

さて、この情報はMySQL自身から実に簡単に抽出することができますが、
なぜこれを使用しないのですか？

This call will extract the list of all the columns, and the primary key
and set them up for you. It will die horribly if the table contains
no primary key, or has a composite primary key.

この呼び出しは全てのカラム、プライマリキーのリストを抽出し、
セットアップします。
テーブルにプライマリキーもしくは複合プライマリキーを含んでいない場合
それはおそらくdieするでしょう。

=head2 autoinflate

  __PACKAGE__->autoinflate(column_type => 'Inflation::Class');

  __PACKAGE__->autoinflate(timestamp => 'Time::Piece');
  __PACKAGE__->autoinflate(dates => 'Time::Piece');

This will automatically set up has_a() relationships for all columns of
the specified type to the given class.

これは指定されたタイプに関する全てのカラムの為に、
自動的に与えられたクラスにhas_a()をセットアップするでしょう。

We currently assume that all classess passed will be able to inflate
and deflate without needing extra has_a arguments, with the example of
Time::Piece objects, which we deal with using Time::Piece::mysql (which
you'll have to have installed!).

我々は、Time::Piece::mysqlを使用することで対処できるTime::Pieceオブジェクトの例で
特別なhas_aの引数を必要無しに全てのクラスがパスすることを仮定している。
（あなたはインストールしなければならなくなるでしょう！）

The special type 'dates' will autoinflate all columns of type date,
datetime or timestamp.

特別なタイプである'dates'はカラムタイプの
date、datetime、またはtimestampがautoinflateされるでしょう。

=head2 create_table

        $class->create_table(q{
                name    VARCHAR(40)     NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
                rank    VARCHAR(20)     NOT NULL DEFAULT 'Private',
                serial  INTEGER         NOT NULL
        });

This creates the table for the class, with the given schema. If the
table already exists we do nothing.

これはクラスのために与えられたスキーマでテーブルを作成します。
もしテーブルが既に存在する場合、我々は何もしません。

A typical use would be:

典型的な使い方:

        Music::CD->table('cd');
        Music::CD->create_table(q{
          cdid   MEDIUMINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTO_INCREMENT,
          artist MEDIUMINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL,
                title  VARCHAR(255),
                year   YEAR,
                INDEX (artist),
                INDEX (title)
        });
        Music::CD->set_up_table;

=head2 drop_table

        $class->drop_table;

Drops the table for this class, if it exists.

もしそれが存在している場合は、このクラスによりテーブルをドロップします。

=head2 column_type

        my $type = $class->column_type('column_name');

This returns the 'type' of this table (VARCHAR(20), BIGINT, etc.)

これは（例えばVARCHAR(20), BIGINT, etc.）などのテーブルの'type'を返す。

=head2 enum_vals

        my @allowed = $class->enum_vals('column_name');

This returns a list of the allowable values for an ENUM column.

これはENUMカラムのための許容量のリストを返す。

=head2 retrieve_random

        my $film = Film->retrieve_random;

This will select a random row from the database, and return you
the relevant object.

これはデータベースからランダムに列を選択肢、そして関連するオブジェクトを
返すでしょう。

(MySQL 3.23 and higher only, at this point)

(現時点でMySQL3.23よりも高いバージョンのものである必要がある)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Class::DBI>. MySQL (http://www.mysql.com/)

=head1 AUTHOR

Tony Bowden

=head1 BUGS and QUERIES

Please direct all correspondence regarding this module to:
  bug-Class-DBI-mysql@rt.cpan.org

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

  Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Tony Bowden.

  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
  the terms of the GNU General Public License; either version 2 of the License,
  or (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=head1 翻訳者

 atsushi kobayashi(nekokak@users.sourceforge.jp)
