
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

File::Listing - parse directory listing

=end original

File::Listing - ディレクトリ一覧をパースする

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use File::Listing qw(parse_dir);
 $ENV{LANG} = "C";  # dates in non-English locales not supported
 for (parse_dir(`ls -l`)) {
     ($name, $type, $size, $mtime, $mode) = @$_;
     next if $type ne 'f'; # plain file
     #...
 }

 # directory listing can also be read from a file
 open(LISTING, "zcat ls-lR.gz|");
 $dir = parse_dir(\*LISTING, '+0000');

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This module exports a single function called parse_dir(), which can be
used to parse directory listings.

=end original

このモジュールは parse_dir() という一つだけの関数をエクスポートしていて、
これはディレクトリツリーのパースに使えます。

=begin original

The first parameter to parse_dir() is the directory listing to parse.
It can be a scalar, a reference to an array of directory lines or a
glob representing a filehandle to read the directory listing from.

=end original

parse_dir() の 1 番目の引数はパースするディレクトリ一覧です。
これはスカラ、ディレクトリ行の配列へのリファレンス、ディレクトリ一覧を
読み込むファイルハンドルを表現したグロブ、のいずれかです。

=begin original

The second parameter is the time zone to use when parsing time stamps
in the listing. If this value is undefined, then the local time zone is
assumed.

=end original

2 番目の引数は一覧の時刻をパースするときに使うタイムゾーンです。
この値が未定義の場合、ローカルのタイムゾーンが仮定されます。

=begin original

The third parameter is the type of listing to assume.  Currently
supported formats are 'unix', 'apache' and 'dosftp'.  The default
value 'unix'.  Ideally, the listing type should be determined
automatically.

=end original

3 番目の引数は仮定する一覧の種類です。
現在の所、対応している形式は 'unix', 'apache', 'dosftp' です。
デフォルト値は 'unix' です。
理想的には、一覧の種類は自動的に決定されるべきです。

=begin original

The fourth parameter specifies how unparseable lines should be treated.
Values can be 'ignore', 'warn' or a code reference.  Warn means that
the perl warn() function will be called.  If a code reference is
passed, then this routine will be called and the return value from it
will be incorporated in the listing.  The default is 'ignore'.

=end original

4 番目の引数は、パースできない行をどう扱うかを指定します。
値は 'ignore' か 'warn' かコードリファレンスです。
'warn' は、perl の warn() 関数が呼び出されます。
コードリファレンスが渡されると、指定されたルーチンが呼び出され、
その返り値が一覧に加えられます。
デフォルトは 'ignore' です。

=begin original

Only the first parameter is mandatory.

=end original

最初のパラメータのみが必須です。

=begin original

The return value from parse_dir() is a list of directory entries.  In
a scalar context the return value is a reference to the list.  The
directory entries are represented by an array consisting of [
$filename, $filetype, $filesize, $filetime, $filemode ].  The
$filetype value is one of the letters 'f', 'd', 'l' or '?'.  The
$filetime value is the seconds since Jan 1, 1970.  The
$filemode is a bitmask like the mode returned by stat().

=end original

parse_dir() からの返り値は、ディレクトリエントリのリストです。
スカラコンテキストでは、リストへのリファレンスです。
ディレクトリエントリは [$filename, $filetype, $filesize, $filetime,
$filemode ] で構成される配列で表現されます。
$filetype の値は 'f', 'd', 'l', '?' の文字のいずれかです。
$filetime の値は 1970 年 1 月 1 日からの秒数です。
$filemode は stat() で返されるモードのようなビットマスクです。

=head1 CREDITS

=begin original

Based on lsparse.pl (from Lee McLoughlin's ftp mirror package) and
Net::FTP's parse_dir (Graham Barr).

=end original

(Lee McLoughlin による ftp mirror パッケージの) lsparse.pl と、
(Graham Barr による) Net::FTP の parse_dir を基にしています。

=begin meta

Translate: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org>
Status: completed

=end meta

