=head1 名前

threads - Perl extension allowing use of interpreter based threads from perl

threads - インタープリッタスレッドの使用を可能にするPerl拡張

=head1 概要

    use threads;

    sub start_thread {
	print "Thread started\n";
    }

    my $thread  = threads->create("start_thread","argument");
    my $thread2 = $thread->create(sub { print "I am a thread"},"argument");
    my $thread3 = async { foreach (@files) { ... } };

    $thread->join();
    $thread->detach();

    $thread = threads->self();
    $thread = threads->object( $tid );

    $thread->tid();
    threads->tid();
    threads->self->tid();

    threads->yield();

    threads->list();

=head1 説明

Perl 5.6 introduced something called interpreter threads.  Interpreter
threads are different from "5005threads" (the thread model of Perl
5.005) by creating a new perl interpreter per thread and not sharing
any data or state between threads by default.

Perl 5.6 はインタープリッタ・スレッドと呼ばれるものを導入した。
インタープリッタ・スレッドは、スレッド毎に新たにPerlインタプリタを生成することによって、
また、デフォルトではいかなるデータや状態もスレッド間で共有しないことによって、
5005スレッド（Perl 5.005 におけるスレッドモデル）とは区別される。


Prior to perl 5.8 this has only been available to people embedding
perl and for emulating fork() on windows.

perl 5.8より前では、これはperlをembedする人々にとって、
そしてwindowsでfork()をエミュレートするためにのみ利用可能であった。

The threads API is loosely based on the old Thread.pm API. It is very
important to note that variables are not shared between threads, all
variables are per default thread local.  To use shared variables one
must use threads::shared.

threads APIは古いThread.pm APIに緩やかに基づいている。
変数はスレッド間で共有されず、全ての変数はデフォルトで
スレッドローカルなものであることに注意しておくことが非常に重要だ。
共有変数を利用するには、threads::sharedを使わなければならない。

It is also important to note that you must enable threads by doing
C<use threads> as early as possible in the script itself and that it
is not possible to enable threading inside an C<eval "">, C<do>,
C<require>, or C<use>.  In particular, if you are intending to share
variables with threads::shared, you must C<use threads> before you
C<use threads::shared> and C<threads> will emit a warning if you do
it the other way around.

スクリプト内では、できるだけ速やかにC<use threads>することにより、
スレッドを利用可能にするべきだ。そしてC<eval "">, C<do>,C<require>, or C<use>
の内部でスレッド操作をすることは不可能であることに注意することも重要である。
殊に、threads::sharedで変数を共有しようとしているならば、C<use threads::shared>の前にC<use threads>しなければならない。
もし、他の方法でそれをやろうとするとC<threads>は警告を発する。

=over

=item $thread = threads->create(function, LIST)

This will create a new thread with the entry point function and give
it LIST as parameters.  It will return the corresponding threads
object. The new() method is an alias for create().

これはエントリーポイントとなる関数を伴って新しいスレッドを生成し、
リストをパラメータとして与える。対応するスレッドオブジェクトを返す。new()はcreate()の言い換えだ。

=item $thread->join

This will wait for the corresponding thread to join. When the thread
finishes, join() will return the return values of the entry point
function. If the thread has been detached, an error will be thrown.
If the program exits without all other threads having been either
joined or detached, then a warning will be issued. (A program exits
either because one of its threads explicitly calls exit(), or in the
case of the main thread, reaches the end of the main program file.)

対応するスレッドがjoinするのを待つ。そのスレッドが終了した時、join()はエントリーポイント関数の戻り値を返す。
もしそのスレッドがdetachされていたなら、エラーが投げられる。いずれかのスレッドがjoinかdetachされずにプログラムが終了すると、
警告が出る（プログラムは、スレッドが明示的にexit()を呼び出すか、あるいはメインスレッドにおいてプログラムファイルの終端に達した時に終了する）。

=item $thread->detach

Will make the thread unjoinable, and cause any eventual return value
to be discarded.

そのスレッドをjoin不可能にし、結果の戻り値を放棄する。

=item threads->self

This will return the thread object for the current thread.

現在のスレッドのスレッドオブジェクトを返す。

=item $thread->tid

This will return the id of the thread.  Thread IDs are integers, with
the main thread in a program being 0.  Currently Perl assigns a unique
tid to every thread ever created in your program, assigning the first
thread to be created a tid of 1, and increasing the tid by 1 for each
new thread that's created.

スレッドのidを返す。スレッドIDは整数であり、プログラムの始まりとなるメインスレッドの値は0である。
現在のPerlは、生成された最初のスレッドのtidに1を与え、新しいスレッドが生成されるたびにtidの値を1増やしていくことによって、プログラム中に生成される全てのスレッドに一意なtidを割り振る。

NB the class method C<< threads->tid() >> is a quick way to get the
current thread id if you don't have your thread object handy.

注意　あなたがスレッドオブジェクトを利用できない場合、クラスメソッドC<< threads->tid() >>は、現在のスレッドidを手にする近道である。

=item threads->object( tid )

This will return the thread object for the thread associated with the
specified tid.  Returns undef if there is no thread associated with the tid
or no tid is specified or the specified tid is undef.

指定されたtidに関連しているスレッドのオブジェクトを返す。もしそのtidと関連しているスレッドがない場合、あるいはtidが指定されていない、指定されたtidがundefの場合、メソッドはundefを返す。

=item threads->yield();

This is a suggestion to the OS to let this thread yield CPU time to other
threads.  What actually happens is highly dependent upon the underlying
thread implementation.

このスレッドが他のスレッドにCPU時間を譲ってもいいということをOSに示唆する。実際に起こることは、基になっているスレッド実装に大きく依存している。

You may do C<use threads qw(yield)> then use just a bare C<yield> in your
code.

コード内では、C<use threads qw(yield)>してから、たんに裸のC<yield>を使ってもよい。

=item threads->list();

This will return a list of all non joined, non detached threads.

joinおよびdetachされていない全てのスレッドのリストを返す。

=item async BLOCK;

C<async> creates a thread to execute the block immediately following
it.  This block is treated as an anonymous sub, and so must have a
semi-colon after the closing brace. Like C<< threads->new >>, C<async>
returns a thread object.

C<async>はその直後に続くブロックを実行するスレッドを生成する。このブロックは無名サブルーチンとして扱われるので、閉じブレースの後にセミコロンをつけなければならない。C<< threads->new >>同様、C<async>はスレッドオブジェクトを返す。

=back

=head1 警告

=over 4

=item A thread exited while %d other threads were still running

A thread (not necessarily the main thread) exited while there were
still other threads running.  Usually it's a good idea to first collect
the return values of the created threads by joining them, and only then
exit from the main thread.

あるスレッド（メインスレッドである必要はない）が、まだ他のスレッドが実行中にexitした。通常、はじめに生成されたスレッドの戻り値をjoinでもって回収し、それからメインスレッドからexitするのがよい方法だ。

=back

=head1 TODO

The current implementation of threads has been an attempt to get
a correct threading system working that could be built on, 
and optimized, in newer versions of perl.

Currently the overhead of creating a thread is rather large,
also the cost of returning values can be large. These are areas
were there most likely will be work done to optimize what data
that needs to be cloned.

=head1 バグ

=over

=item 親-子 スレッド.

On some platforms it might not be possible to destroy "parent"
threads while there are still existing child "threads".

あるプラットフォームにおいては、子スレッドがまだ存在している間は親スレッドを破壊することができないことがある。

This will possibly be fixed in later versions of perl.

たぶん今後のperlのバージョンではフィックスされるだろう。

=item tidはI32

The thread id is a 32 bit integer, it can potentially overflow.
This might be fixed in a later version of perl.

スレッドidは32bit整数である。オーバーフローする可能性がある。今後のperlのバージョンではフィックスされるだろう。

=item オブジェクトの戻り

When you return an object the entire stash that the object is blessed
as well.  This will lead to a large memory usage.  The ideal situation
would be to detect the original stash if it existed.

オブジェクトを返すとき、そのオブジェクトがblessされているstashも同様である。これはメモリを大量に使用するかもしれない。理想的な状態は、存在しているならオリジナルのstashを見つけることなのだが。

=item BEGINブロック内でのスレッドの生成

Creating threads inside BEGIN blocks (or during the compilation phase
in general) does not work.  (In Windows, trying to use fork() inside
BEGIN blocks is an equally losing proposition, since it has been
implemented in very much the same way as threads.)

BEGINブロック内で（つまり一般的にコンパイルフェーズの段階で）スレッドを生成することはできない（WindowsのBEGINブロック内でfork()を利用しようとする試みも同様に見込みのない提案である。なぜならスレッドと全く同じ方法で実装されてきたからだ）。

=item PERL_OLD_SIGNALSはスレッドセーフではない。これからも。

If your Perl has been built with PERL_OLD_SIGNALS (one has
to explicitly add that symbol to ccflags, see C<perl -V>),
signal handling is not threadsafe.

もしあなたがPERL_OLD_SIGNALSオプションを有効にしてPerlをbuiltしてるなら（このシンボルをccflagに明示的に追加しなければならない。C<perl -V>を見よ）、シグナルハンドリングはスレッドセーフではない。

=back

=head1 著者および著作権

Arthur Bergman E<lt>arthur at contiller.seE<gt>

threads is released under the same license as Perl.

Thanks to

Richard Soderberg E<lt>rs at crystalflame.netE<gt>
Helping me out tons, trying to find reasons for races and other weird bugs!

Simon Cozens E<lt>simon at brecon.co.ukE<gt>
Being there to answer zillions of annoying questions

Rocco Caputo E<lt>troc at netrus.netE<gt>

Vipul Ved Prakash E<lt>mail at vipul.netE<gt>
Helping with debugging.

please join perl-ithreads@perl.org for more information

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<threads::shared>, L<perlthrtut>, 
L<http://www.perl.com/pub/a/2002/06/11/threads.html>,
L<perlcall>, L<perlembed>, L<perlguts>

