=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

=begin original

Module::Install::ReadmeMarkdownFromPod - create README.mkdn from POD

=end original

Module::Install::ReadmeMarkdownFromPod - PODから README.mkdnの生成

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # in Makefile.PL
    use inc::Module::Install;
    name 'Some-Module';
    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

L<Module::Install::ReadmeMarkdownFromPod> is a L<Module::Install> extension
that generates a C<README.mkdn> file automatically from an indicated file
containing POD whenever the author runs C<Makefile.PL>. This file is used by
GitHub to display nicely formatted information about a repository.

=end original

L<Module::Install::ReadmeMarkdownFromPod>は L<Module::Install>の拡張であり,
C<Makefile.PL>を実行したときに指定したファイルに含まれる PODから自動的に
C<README.mkdn>を生成します. このファイルは GitHubで見やすいようにフォーマットされた
リポジトリの情報を示すために使われてます.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=begin original

=over 4

=item C<readme_markdown_from>

Does nothing on the user-side. On the author-side it will generate a
C<README.mkdn> file using L<Pod::Markdown> from the POD in the file passed as
a parameter.

    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

If a second parameter is set to a true value then the C<README.mkdn> will be
removed at C<make distclean>.

    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm' => 'clean';

It will die unless a file name is given.

=item C<readme_markdown_from_pod>

Like C<readme_markdown_from> but assumes that C<all_from> has been called
before and uses the filename stored there to generate the C<README.mkdn>. It
then calls C<readme_markdown_from> with that filename. If this function is
given an optional boolean parameter, that will be passed to
C<readme_markdown_from> as well, indicating whether to clean up the generated
C<README.mkdn> file at C<make distclean> time.

=item C<readme_from_pod>

Like C<readme_markdown_from_pod>, but affects the plain-text C<README> file
generation done in L<Module::Install::ReadmeFromPod>. This function would be
better placed in that module and might move there eventually. It is given here
as a convenience because if you want to generate both C<README> and
C<README.mkdn> you can do this here without repeating the filename given in
C<all_from>.

=item C<reference_module>

A utility function that saves you from repeatedly naming a reference module
from which to extract information.

    reference_module 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

is equivalent to:

    all_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';
    readme_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';
    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

It will die unless a file name is given. Note that C<reference_module> will
not work with L<Shipit::Step::FindVersion> because that module is looking for
a C<version_from> or C<all_from> string in C<Makefile.PL>

=back

=end original

=over 4

=item C<readme_markdown_from>

ユーザ側では何も行いません. 作者側でパラメータとして渡されたファイルに
含まれる PODから C<README.mkdn>ファイルを L<Pod::Markdown>を使って生成します.

    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

第二引数に真となる値が設定された場合, C<make distclean>をした場合に C<README.mkdn>を
削除します.

    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm' => 'clean';

ファイル名が与えられない場合は dieします.

=item C<readme_markdown_from_pod>

C<readme_markdown_from>と似ていますが, C<all_from>が事前に呼ばれていることが前提であり,
そこで指定されたファイルから C<README.mkdn>の生成します.
内部では C<readme_markdown_from>にその名前を指定して呼び出しています.
この関数はオプショナルな booleanパラメータを指定することができます.
C<readme_markdown_from>と同様であり, C<make distclean>をした場合に
生成した C<README.mkdn>を削除します.

=item C<readme_from_pod>

C<readme_markdown_from>と似ていますが, L<Module::Install::ReadmeFromPod>を
使ってプレーンテキストの C<README>を生成します. この関数はそのモジュールがあり,
最終的にそちらを使うのであれば, いい選択でしょう.
C<README>と C<README.mkdn>の両方を生成したい場合に, all_fromに与えるファイル名を
繰り返し書くことがないので, 便利に使えるでしょう.

=item C<reference_module>

情報の抽出を行うために参照するモジュールの名前を繰り返し書かないで済むようにする
ユーティリティ関数です.

    reference_module 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

は以下と等価です.

    all_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';
    readme_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';
    readme_markdown_from 'lib/Some/Module.pm';

ファイル名が与えられない場合は dieします. C<reference_module>は
L<Shipit::Step::FindVersion>と合わせて利用することはできません. なぜならそのモジュールは
C<Makefile.PL>から C<version_from>か C<all_from>という文字列を見つけようと
するからです.

=back

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

=begin original

No bugs have been reported.

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org>.

=end original

今のところ報告されたバグはありません.

バグが見つかったり, 実装して欲しい機能がある場合は L<http://rt.cpan.org>
ウェブインタフェースを使ってレポートしてください.

=head1 INSTALLATION

=begin original

See perlmodinstall for information and options on installing Perl modules.

=end original

Perlモジュールのインストールについての情報とオプションについては perlmodinstallを
参照してください.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

=begin original

The latest version of this module is available from the Comprehensive Perl
Archive Network (CPAN). Visit L<http://www.perl.com/CPAN/> to find a CPAN site
near you. Or see
L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Module-Install-ReadmeMarkdownFromPod/>.

The development version lives at
L<http://github.com/hanekomu/module-install-readmemarkdownfrompod/>.  Instead
of sending patches, please fork this project using the standard git and github
infrastructure.

=end original

このモジュールの最新バージョンは CPANから利用することができます.
L<http://www.perl.com/CPAN/>であなたに最も近い CPANサイトを探して見てください.
もしくは L<http://search.cpan.org/dist/Module-Install-ReadmeMarkdownFromPod/>
を参照してください.

開発中のバージョンは L<http://github.com/hanekomu/module-install-readmemarkdownfrompod/>
にあります. パッチを送る代わりに, gitと githubの基盤を使ってこのプロジェクトを,
ぜひ forkしてみてください.

=head1 AUTHORS

Marcel GrE<uuml>nauer, C<< <marcel@cpan.org> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2009 by Marcel GrE<uuml>nauer

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Pod::Markdown>

L<Module::Install>

L<Module::Install::ReadmeFromPod>

=cut
