
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

MIDI::Event - MIDI events

MIDI::Event - MIDIイベント

=head1 概要

  # MIDIファイル中のテキストイベントをダンプする
  die "No filename" unless @ARGV;
  use MIDI;  # MIDI::Event を use している
  MIDI::Opus->new( {
     "from_file" => $ARGV[0],
     "exclusive_event_callback" => sub{print "$_[2]\n"},
     "include" => \@MIDI::Event::Text_events
   } ); # これらのオプションは MIDI::Event::decode に渡される
  exit;

=head1 説明

Functions and lists to do with with MIDI events and MIDI event structures.

MIDIイベントを扱う関数とリスト、及びMIDIイベントの構造。

An event is a list, like:

一つのイベントはこのようなリストである：

  ( 'note_on', 141, 4, 50, 64 )

where the first element is the event name, the second is the
delta-time, and the remainder are further parameters, per the
event-format specifications below.

最初の要素はイベント名。二番目はデルタタイム。そして残りは追加パラメータで、
この後に出てくるイベント形式の仕様別パラメータである。

An I<event structure> is a list of references to such events -- a
"LoL".  If you don't know how to deal with LoLs, you I<must> read
L<perllol>.

一つのI<イベント構造体>は、このような諸イベントへのリファレンスのリスト、
すなわちリストのリスト(LoL)である。
もしLoLの扱いがわからないなら、L<perllpl>を読まなければI<ならない>。

=head1 小物

For your use in code (as in the code in the Synopsis), this module
provides a few lists:

（概要に例示しているような）プログラム中で使うために、このモジュールは
ほんの少しであるがリストを提供している。

=over

=item @MIDI_events

a list of all "MIDI events" AKA voice events -- e.g., 'note_on'

ボイスメッセージ(voice events)と呼ばれる全MIDIイベントのリスト。例：'note_on'

=item @Text_events

a list of all text meta-events -- e.g., 'track_name'

テキスト型のメタイベント。例：'track_name'

=item @Nontext_meta_events

all other meta-events (plus 'raw_data' and F-series events like
'tune_request').

非テキスト型メタイベント（さらに'raw_data'や、'tune_request'のような
F系列のイベントも加わる）

=item @Meta_events

the combination of Text_events and Nontext_meta_events.

テキスト型イベントと非テキスト型メタイベントの組み合わせ。

=item @All_events

the combination of all the above lists.

以上あげた全てのリストの組み合わせ。

=back

=head1 関数

This module provides three functions of interest, which all act upon
event structures.  As an end user, you probably don't need to use any
of these directly, but note that options you specify for
MIDI::Opus->new with a from_file or from_handle options will percolate
down to these functions; so you should understand the options for the
first two of the below functions.  (The casual user should merely skim
this section.)

このモジュールはイベント構造体に作用する三つの興味深い関数を提供する。
あなたがエンドユーザーなら、これらの関数を直接利用する必要はないだろう。
だが、from_fileやfrom_handleオプションとともに使うMIDI::Opus->newに指定する
オプションは、これらの関数へと送られることに注意すること。だから、これから
あげる関数の２番目までについては、そのオプションを理解しておくべきだろう。

=over

=item MIDI::Event::decode( \$data, { ...options... } )

This takes a I<reference> to binary MIDI data and decodes it into a
new event structure (a LoL), a I<reference> to which is returned.
Options are:

この関数はバイナリ形式のMIDIデータへのI<リファレンス>を引数に取り、
新しいイベント構造体（LoL）にデコードする。関数の戻り値はこの構造体への
リファレンスである。オプションは次の通り：


=over 16

=item 'include' => LISTREF

I<If specified>, listref is interpreted as a reference to a list of
event names (e.g., 'cue_point' or 'note_off') such that only these
events will be parsed from the binary data provided.  Events whose
names are NOT in this list will be ignored -- i.e., they won't end up
in the event structure, and they won't be each passed to any callbacks
you may have specified.

このオプションをI<指定すると>、リストリファレンスはイベント名
（例：'cue_point'や'note_off'）リストへのリファレンスとして解釈される。
このリストにあるイベント名だけが、与えられたバイナリデータからパースされる。
このリストに"ない"イベント名は無視される。つまり、それらはイベント構造体には
ならない。また、指定したいかなるコールバック関数にもデータは渡されない。

=item 'exclude' => LISTREF

I<If specified>, listref is interpreted as a reference to a list of
event names (e.g., 'cue_point' or 'note_off') that will NOT be parsed
from the binary stream; they'll be ignored -- i.e., they won't end up
in the event structure, and they won't be passed to any callbacks you
may have specified.  Don't specify both an include and an exclude
list.  And if you specify I<neither>, all events will be decoded --
this is what you probably want most of the time.  I've created this
include/exclude functionality mainly so you can scan a file rather
efficiently for just a few specific event types, e.g., just text
events, or just sysexes.

このオプションをI<指定すると>、リストリファレンスはイベント名
（例：'cue_point'や'note_off'）リストへのリファレンスとして解釈される。
このリストにあるイベント名はバイナリストリームから"パースされない"。
それらは無視される。つまり、それらはイベント構造体にはならない。また、
指定したいかなるコールバック関数にもデータは渡されない。
includeオプションとexcludeオプションのリストを両方指定してはならない。
また、両方のオプションをI<指定しない>場合、全てのイベントがデコードされる。
これをすると、パースにかなり時間が必要になるかもしれない。
私がこのinclude/exclude機能を作ったのは、ほんの少しの特殊なイベントタイプ
（例えば単なるテキストイベントやシステムエクスクルーシブメッセージ）に対し
効率的にファイルを走査するためである。

=item 'no_eot_magic' => 0 or 1

See the description of C<'end_track'>, in "EVENTS", below.

後に出てくる"イベント"のC<'end_track'>の説明を参照。

=item 'event_callback' => CODEREF

If defined, the code referred to (whether as C<\&wanted> or as
C<sub { BLOCK }>) is called on every event after it's been parsed into
an event list (and any EOT magic performed), but before it's added to
the event structure.  So if you want to alter the event stream on the
way to the event structure (which counts as deep voodoo), define
'event_callback' and have it modify its C<@_>.

サブルーチンへのリファレンス（C<\&wanted>でもC<sub { BLOCK }>でもよい）を定義
すると、データがイベントリストへとパースされた後、イベント毎にそのコードが
呼び出される（そして何らかのEOTマジックが実行される）。
ただし、コードはイベントがイベント構造体に追加される前に呼び出される。
つまり、イベント構造体へ付け加える過程でイベントストリームに変更を加えたいなら、
'event_callback'を定義して、そのルーチンのC<@_>を修正するということだ。

=item 'exclusive_event_callback' => CODEREF

Just like 'event_callback'; but if you specify this, the callback is
called I<instead> of adding the events to the event structure.  (So
the event structure returned by decode() at the end will always be
empty.)  Good for cases like the text dumper in the Synopsis, above.

'event_callback'と同じだ。ただしこのオプションを指定すると、イベントを
イベント構造体に付け加える代わりにコールバックが呼び出される（それゆえ、
最後にdecode()で返されるイベント構造体は常に空となる）。
先に概要のところでみたように、テキストダンプのようなケースで使うとよい。

=back

=item MIDI::Event::encode( \@events, {...options...})

This takes a I<reference> to an event structure (a LoL) and encodes it
as binary data, which it returns a I<reference> to.  Options:

この関数はイベント構造体（LoL）へのI<リファレンス>を引数に取り、
バイナリデータとしてエンコードする。関数の戻り値はこのデータへのリファレンス
である。オプションは次の通り：


=over 16

=item 'unknown_callback' => CODEREF

If this is specified, it's interpreted as a reference to a subroutine
to be called when an unknown event name (say, 'macro_10' or
something), is seen by encode().  The function is fed all of the event
(its name, delta-time, and whatever parameters); the return value of
this function is added to the encoded data stream -- so if you don't
want to add anything, be sure to return ''.

このオプションに指定したサブルーチンへのリファレンスは、encode()が未知の
イベント名（例えば'macro_10'とか何か）に出くわしたときに呼び出される。
この関数にはイベントの要素全て（イベント名前、デルタタイム、その他の
パラメーター）が与えられ、戻り値はエンコードされたデータストリームに
追加される。だから、何も追加したくないなら必ず''（空文字）を返すようにすること。

If no 'unknown_callback' is specified, encode() will C<warn> (well,
C<carp>) of the unknown event.  To merely block that, just set
'unknown_callback' to C<sub{return('')}>

'unknown_callbackを指定しないと、encode()は未知のイベントに対しC<warn>
（あるいはC<carp>）を発生させる。これをさせないためには、'unknown_callback'
オプションにC<sub{return('')}>をセットすればよい。

=item 'no_eot_magic' => 0 or 1

Determines whether a track-final 0-length text event is encoded as
a end-track event -- since a track-final 0-length text event probably
started life as an end-track event read in by decode(), above.

トラック終端の0長サイズのテキストイベントを、エンドオブトラックとしてエンコード
するかどうか決定する。というのも、トラック終端の0長サイズのテキストイベントは、
decode()が読み込むと、エンドオブトラックとして生成されるからだ。

=item 'never_add_eot' => 0 or 1

If 1, C<encode()> never ever I<adds> an end-track (EOT) event to the
encoded data generated unless it's I<explicitly> there as an
'end_track' in the given event structure.  You probably don't ever
need this unless you're encoding for I<straight> writing to a MIDI
port, instead of to a file.

1にすると、C<encode()>は自ら生成するエンコードデータにエンドオブトラック(EOT)を
加えなくなる。ただしイベント構造内に明示的に'end_track'がある場合は別だ。
あなたがファイルではなくてMIDIポートにI<直接>書き込もうとしない限り、
このオプションは必要ないだろう。

=item 'no_running_status' => 0 or 1

If 1, disables MIDI's "running status" compression.  Probably never
necessary unless you need to feed your MIDI data to a strange old
sequencer that doesn't understand running status.

1にするとランニングステータスが利用できなくなる。ランニングステータスを
理解しない古びて珍奇なシーケンサでも使わない限り、たぶんこのオプションは
必要ないだろう。

=back

Note: If you're encoding just a single event at a time or less than a
whole trackful in any case, then you probably want something like:

注意：一度に一つのイベントだけをエンコードする場合、あるいはとにかく一度に
全トラックをエンコードしない場合、このようにするだろう：


          $data_r = MIDI::Event::encode(
            [
              [ 'note_on', 141, 4, 50, 64 ]
            ],
            { 'never_add_eot' => 1} );

which just encodes that one event I<as> an event structure of one
event -- i.e., an LoL that's just a list of one list.

これは、一つのイベントからなるイベント構造体I<として>一つのイベントを
エンコードしている。つまり、一つのLoLはまさに一つのリストのリストである。

But note that running status will not always apply when you're
encoding less than a whole trackful at a time, since running status
works only within a LoL encoded all at once.  This'll result in
non-optimally compressed, but still effective, encoding.

しかし注意したいのは、一度に全トラックをエンコードしないなら、
ランニングステータスは必ずしも適用されるとは限らないということだ。なぜなら
ランニングステータスは一度に全部エンコードされたLoLの中でのみ機能するからだ。
これは非最適圧縮型（だが依然効率的な）エンコードの結果である。

=item MIDI::Event::copy_structure()

This takes a I<reference> to an event structure, and returns a
I<reference> to a copy of it.  If you're thinking about using this, you
probably should want to use the more straightforward

この関数はイベント構造体へのリファレンスを引数に取り、コピーしたリファレンスを
返す。もしこの関数を使うことについて思案しているなら、もっと素直な使い方を
望むべきだろう。

          $track2 = $track->copy

instead.  But it's here if you happen to need it.

これが代わりになる。

=back

=head1 イベントとイベントデータのタイプ

=head2 データタイプ

Events use these data types:

イベントはこれらのデータタイプを使用する：

=over

=item channel = 0〜15の値

=item note = 0〜127の値

=item dtime = 0〜268,435,455 (0x0FFFFFFF)の値

=item velocity = 0〜127の値

=item patch = 0〜127の値

=item sequence = 0-65,535 (0xFFFF)の値

=item text = 0byte以上のASCII文字列

=item raw = 0byte以上のバイナリデータの文字列

=item pitch_wheel = -8192〜8191 (0x1FFF)の値

=item song_pos = 0〜16,383 (0x3FFF)の値

=item song_number = 0〜127の値

=item tempo = マイクロ秒, 0〜16,777,215 (0x00FFFFFF)の値

=back

For data types not defined above, (e.g., I<sf> and I<mi> for
C<'key_signature'>), consult L<MIDI::Filespec> and/or the source for
C<MIDI::Event.pm>.  And if you don't see it documented, it's probably
because I don't understand it, so you'll have to consult a real MIDI
reference.

上で定義していないデータタイプ（例：C<'key_signature'>用のI<sf>やI<mi>）
については、 L<MIDI::Filespec>やC<MIDI::Event.pm>のソースで調べて欲しい。
そのドキュメントにも書いていなければ、たぶん私の理解していないタイプなので、
実際のMIDIリファレンスを調べるべきだろう。

=head2 イベント

And these are the events:

イベント：

=over

=item ('note_off', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<note>, I<velocity>)

=item ('note_on', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<note>, I<velocity>)

=item ('key_after_touch', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<note>, I<velocity>)

=item ('control_change', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<controller(0-127)>, I<value(0-127)>)

=item ('patch_change', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<patch>)

=item ('channel_after_touch', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<velocity>)

=item ('pitch_wheel_change', I<dtime>, I<channel>, I<pitch_wheel>)

=item ('set_sequence_number', I<dtime>, I<sequence>)

=item ('text_event', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('copyright_text_event', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('track_name', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('instrument_name', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('lyric', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('marker', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('cue_point', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_08', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_09', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_0a', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_0b', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_0c', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_0d', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_0e', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('text_event_0f', I<dtime>, I<text>)

=item ('end_track', I<dtime>)

=item ('set_tempo', I<dtime>, I<tempo>)

=item ('smpte_offset', I<dtime>, I<hr>, I<mn>, I<se>, I<fr>, I<ff>)

=item ('time_signature', I<dtime>, I<nn>, I<dd>, I<cc>, I<bb>)

=item ('key_signature', I<dtime>, I<sf>, I<mi>)

=item ('sequencer_specific', I<dtime>, I<raw>)

=item ('raw_meta_event', I<dtime>, I<command>(0-255), I<raw>)

=item ('sysex_f0', I<dtime>, I<raw>)

=item ('sysex_f7', I<dtime>, I<raw>)

=item ('song_position', I<dtime>)

=item ('song_select', I<dtime>, I<song_number>)

=item ('tune_request', I<dtime>)

=item ('raw_data', I<dtime>, I<raw>)

=back

Three of the above events are represented a bit oddly from the point
of view of the file spec:

上のイベントのうち三つは、標準MIDIファイルの仕様からすると少し変である。

The parameter I<pitch_wheel> for C<'pitch_wheel_change'> is a value
-8192 to 8191, although the actual encoding of this is as a value 0 to
16,383, as per the spec.

C<'pitch_wheel_change'>用のI<pitch_wheel>は-8192から8191の値をとる。
しかし実際には、仕様書通り0から16,383としてエンコードされる。

Sysex events are represented as either C<'sysex_f0'> or C<'sysex_f7'>,
depending on the status byte they are encoded with.

システムエクスクルーシブイベントはC<'sysex_f0'>かC<'sysex_f7'>として表される。
これは一緒にエンコードされたステータスバイトに依存している。

C<'end_track'> is a bit stranger, in that it is almost never actually
found, or needed.  When the MIDI decoder sees an EOT (i.e., an
end-track status: FF 2F 00) with a delta time of 0, it is I<ignored>!
If in the unlikely event that it has a nonzero delta-time, it's
decoded as a C<'text_event'> with whatever that delta-time is, and a
zero-length text parameter.  (This happens before the
C<'event_callback'> or C<'exclusive_event_callback'> callbacks are
given a crack at it.)  On the encoding side, an EOT is added to the
end of the track as a normal part of the encapsulation of track data.

C<'end_track'>は奇妙な代物だ。実際、ほとんど見かけることも、必要とされることも
ない。MIDIデコーダーはEOT（エンドトラックステータス：FF 2F 00）を0のデルタタイム
とセットで見つけると無視してしまう！もしも0のデルタタイムでない珍しいイベント内
だったら、それはデルタタイムの値が何であれ、C<'text_event'>としてデコードされる。
そしてこれは0長サイズのテキストパラメーターになる（これはC<'event_callback'>や
C<'exclusive_event_callback'>が実行される前に発生する）。エンコードする側から
すると、EOTはトラックデータを包む通常パートとしてトラックの最後に追加される。

I chose to add this special behavior so that you could add events to
the end of a track without having to work around any track-final
C<'end_track'> event.

私がこの特殊な振る舞いを付け加えることを選択したのは、トラック終端の
C<'end_track'>を避けなくても、トラックの後ろにイベントを付け加えることが
できるようにするためである。

However, if you set C<no_eot_magic> as a decoding parameter, none of
this magic happens on the decoding side -- C<'end_track'> is decoded
just as it is.

しかし、もしデコードのパラメータにC<no_eot_magic>をセットしたら、デコードする
側ではこの魔法は起きない。C<'end_track'>はそのままデコードされるのだ。

And if you set C<no_eot_magic> as an encoding parameter, then a
track-final 0-length C<'text_event'> with non-0 delta-times is left as
is.  Normally, such an event would be converted from a C<'text_event'>
to an C<'end_track'> event with thath delta-time.

そしてエンコードのパラメータにC<no_eot_magic>をセットしたなら、0でない
デルタタイムを伴う0長サイズのC<'text_event'>は、そのまま残される。
通常そのようなイベントは、C<'text_event'>からそのデルタタイムを伴った
C<'end_track'>に変換される。

Normally, no user needs to use the C<no_eot_magic> option either in
encoding or decoding.  But it is provided in case you need your event
LoL to be an absolutely literal representation of the binary data,
and/or vice versa.

通常、エンコード・デコードのいずれでも、C<no_eot_magic>オプションを使いたがる
人はいない。だが、あなたがイベントLoLをバイナリデータとして絶対的に文字通りの
表現にしたい場合には、そして・あるいは、その逆の場合には、このオプションを
与えることになる。


=head1 MIDI BNF

For your reference (if you can make any sense of it), here is a copy
of the MIDI BNF, as I found it in a text file that's been floating
around the Net since the late 1980s.

（あなたが理解できるとして）参考のために、MIDI BNFの写しを載せておく。
私はこれを1980年代後半以来ネットに出回っていたテキストファイルの中から
見つけだした。

Note that this seems to describe MIDI events as they can occur in
MIDI-on-the-wire.  I I<think> that realtime data insertion (i.e., the
ability to have E<lt>realtime byteE<gt>s popping up in the I<middle>
of messages) is something that can't happen in MIDI files.

これはMIDI通信で使われるものとして記述されていることに注意。リアルタイムデータ
挿入（リアルタイムのデータがメッセージの途中に飛び込んでくる）は、
MIDIファイルで生じうるようなものではないとI<思う>。

In fact, this library, as written, I<can't> correctly parse MIDI data
that has such realtime bytes inserted in messages.  Nor does it
support representing such insertion in a MIDI event structure that's
encodable for writing to a file.  (Although you could theoretically
represent events with embedded E<lt>realtime byteE<gt>s as just
C<raw_data> events; but then, you can always stow anything
at all in a C<raw_data> event.)

実際、このライブラリは、これまで書いてきたように、データがメッセージに
リアルタイムに挿入されるようなMIDIデータを正しくパースすることはI<できない>。
MIDIイベント構造において、ファイルに書き込みをするためにエンコード可能な
データ挿入を表現することもサポートしていない。（理論的には
E<lt>リアルタイムデータE<gt>の埋め込まれたイベントをC<raw_data>イベントとして
表現することは可能だろう。しかしそれだと、どんなデータも常にC<raw_data>
イベントとして詰め込めることになる。）

 1.  <MIDI Stream> ::=           <MIDI msg> < MIDI Stream>
 2.  <MIDI msg> ::=              <sys msg> | <chan msg>
 3.  <chan msg> ::=              <chan 1byte msg> |
                                 | <chan 2byte msg>
 4.  <chan 1byte msg> ::=        <chan stat1 byte> <data singlet>
                                   <running singlets>
 5.  <chan 2byte msg> ::=        <chan stat2 byte> <data pair>
                                   <running pairs>
 6.  <chan stat1 byte> ::=       <chan voice stat1 nibble>
                                   <hex nibble>
 7.  <chan stat2 byte> ::=       <chan voice stat2 nibble>
                                   <hex nibble>
 8.  <chan voice stat1 nyble>::= C | D
 9.  <chan voice stat2 nyble>::= 8 | 9 | A | B | E
 10. <hex nyble> ::=             0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 |
                                 | 8 | 9 | A | B | C | D | E | F
 11. <data pair> ::=             <data singlet> <data singlet>
 12. <data singlet> ::=          <realtime byte> <data singlet> |
                                 | <data byte>
 13. <running pairs> ::=         <empty> | <data pair> <running pairs>
 14. <running singlets> ::=      <empty> |
                                 | <data singlet> <running singlets>
 15. <data byte> ::=             <data MSD> <hex nyble>
 16. <data MSD> ::=              0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7
 17. <realtime byte> ::=         F8 | FA | FB | FC | FE | FF
 18. <sys msg> ::=               <sys common msg> |
                                 | <sysex msg> |
                                 | <sys realtime msg>
 19. <sys realtime msg> ::=      <realtime byte>
 20. <sysex msg> ::=             <sysex data byte>
                                   <data singlet> <running singlets>
                                   <eox byte>
 21. <sysex stat byte> ::=       F0
 22. <eox byte> ::=              F7
 23. <sys common msg> ::=        <song position msg> |
                                 | <song select msg> |
                                 | <tune request>
 24. <tune request> ::=          F6
 25. <song position msg> ::=     <song position stat byte>
                                   <data pair>
 26. <song select msg> ::=       <song select stat byte>
                                   <data singlet>
 27. <song position stat byte>::=F2
 28. <song select stat byte> ::= F3

=head1 著作権

Copyright (c) 1998-2002 Sean M. Burke. All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 作者

Sean M. Burke C<sburke@cpan.org>  (Except the BNF --
who knows who's behind that.)

