
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

MIDI::Track -- functions and methods for MIDI tracks

MIDI::Track -- MIDIトラックのための関数とメソッド

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use MIDI; # MIDI::Track その他を use する
 $taco_track = MIDI::Track->new;
 $taco_track->events(
  ['text_event', 0, "I like tacos!"],
  ['note_on',    0, 4, 50, 96 ],
  ['note_off', 300, 4, 50, 96 ],
 );
 $opus = MIDI::Opus->new(
  {  'format' => 0,  'ticks' => 240,  'tracks' => [ $taco_track ] }
 );
   ...etc...

=head1 説明

MIDI::Track provides a constructor and methods for objects
representing a MIDI track.  It is part of the MIDI suite.

MIDI::Trackは、MIDIトラックを表現するオブジェクトに対する
コンストラクタとメソッドを提供する。

MIDI tracks have, currently, three attributes: a type, events, and
data.  Almost all tracks you'll ever deal with are of type "MTrk", and
so this is the type by default.  Events are what make up an MTrk
track.  If a track is not of type MTrk, or is an unparsed MTrk, then
it has (or better have!) data.

現在MIDIトラックはタイプ、イベント、データという三つの属性を持っている。
あなたが扱うほとんど全てのトラックは"MTrk"タイプのトラックだ。
そしてこれがデフォルトのタイプである。イベントは、MTrkトラックを構成している。
もしあるトラックがMTrkタイプでないか、あるいはMTrkとして解析されない場合、
それはデータということだ。

When an MTrk track is encoded, if there is data defined for it, that's
what's encoded (and "encoding data" means just passing it thru
untouched).  Note that this happens even if the data defined is ""
(but it won't happen if the data is undef).  However, if there's no
data defined for the MTrk track (as is the general case), then the
track's events are encoded, via a call to C<MIDI::Event::encode>.

MTrkトラックがエンコードされる時、そこに定義済みのデータがあるなら、それが
エンコードされる（「データをエンコードする」とは、データを未接触のものへと
送るこをと意味する）。データが""で定義されていてもエンコードされることに注意
（データがundefになっているならエンコードされない）。しかし、定義済みデータが
MTrkトラックにない場合（これはよくあることだ）、トラックが有するイベントが
エンコードされる。これはC<MIDI::Event::encode>の呼び出しを通じて行われる。

(If neither events not data are defined, it acts as a zero-length
track.)

（もしどのイベントも定義されていないなら、0サイズのトラックとして振舞う。）

If a non-MTrk track is encoded, its data is encoded.  If there's no
data for it, it acts as a zero-length track.

非MTrkタイプのトラックがエンコードされるなら、トラックにあるデータはエンコード
される。トラックにデータが無い場合は、0長サイズのトラックとして振舞う。

In other words, 1) events are meaningful only in an MTrk track, 2) you
probably don't want both data and events defined, and 3) 99.999% of
the time, just worry about events in MTrk tracks, because that's all
you ever want to deal with anyway.

つまり、(1)イベントはMTrkタイプのトラック内部でのみ意味を持つ。
(2)定義されたデータとイベントの両方を必要とはしないだろう。
(3)あなたの時間の99.999%はMTrkトラック内のイベントに気をまわすことになる。
なぜなら、それがあなたが関わろうとすることの全てだからだ。


=head1 コンストラクタとメソッド

MIDI::Track provides...

MIDI::Trackは以下のものを提供する。

=over

=item MIDI::Track->new({ ...options... })

This returns a new track object.  By default, the track is of type
MTrk, which is probably what you want.  The options, which are
optional, is an anonymous hash.  There are four recognized options:
C<data>, which sets the data of the new track to the string provided;
C<type>, which sets the type of the new track to the string provided;
C<events>, which sets the events of the new track to the contents of
the list-reference provided (i.e., a reference to a LoL -- see
L<perllol> for the skinny on LoLs); and C<events_r>, which is an exact
synonym of C<events>.

新しいトラックオブジェクトを返す。デフォルトでMTrkタイプになる。これはたぶん
あなたが望むものだろう。任意のオプションとして無名ハッシュを渡せる。
モジュールは四つのオプションを認識する：C<data>は新規のトラックデータに
与えられた文字列をセットする。C<type>は新規のトラックのタイプに与えられた
文字列をセットする。C<events>は新規のトラックのイベントに与えられたリスト
リファレンスの内容をセットする（配列の配列へのリファレンス。正確な情報は
L<perllol>を参照すること）。そして C<events_r>はC<events>と同義。

=item $new_track = $track->copy

This duplicates the contents of the given track, and returns
the duplicate.  If you are unclear on why you may need this function,
consider:

このメソッドはトラックの内容を複製し、オブジェクトを返す。
もしこの機能がなぜ必要なのかよくわからない場合は、次の例を考えてみよう。


          $funk  = MIDI::Opus->new({'from_file' => 'funk1.mid'});
          $samba = MIDI::Opus->new({'from_file' => 'samba1.mid'});

          $bass_track = ( $funk->tracks )[-1]; # $funkの最後尾のトラック
          push(@{ $samba->tracks_r }, $bass_track );
               # $sambaの最後尾のトラックにする

          &funk_it_up(  ( $funk->tracks )[-1]  );
               # $funkの最後尾のトラックを修正
          &turn_it_out(  ( $samba->tracks )[-1]  );
               # $sambaの最後尾のトラックを修正

          $funk->write_to_file('funk2.mid');
          $samba->write_to_file('samba2.mid');
          exit;

So you have your routines funk_it_up and turn_it_out, and they each
modify the track they're applied to in some way.  But the problem is that
the above code probably does not do what you want -- because the last
track-object of $funk and the last track-object of $samba are the
I<same object>.  An object, you may be surprised to learn, can be in
different opuses at the same time -- which is fine, except in cases like
the above code.  That's where you need to do copy the object.  Change
the above code to read:

つまり、あなたはfunk_it_upとturn_it_outというルーチンをつくり、何らかの方法で
それぞれのトラックを修正することになる。しかし問題は、上記のコードではあなたの
望むことをやってくれないだろうということだ。$funkの最後尾の
トラックオブジェクトと$sambaの最後尾のトラックオブジェクトが
I<同じオブジェクト>だからだ。驚くかもしれないが、一つのオブジェクトが別の
オプスの中に同時に存在しうる（上のようなケースの除けば、これはこれで良い）。
だからオブジェクトをコピーする必要がある。上記のコードを変更すると：

          push(@{ $samba->tracks_r }, $bass_track->copy );

and what you want to happen, will.

これであなたの望んだとおりになるだろう。

Incidentally, this potential need to copy also occurs with opuses (and
in fact any reference-based data structure, altho opuses and tracks
should cover almost all cases with MIDI stuff), which is why there's
$opus->copy, for copying entire opuses.

ついでにいうと、このようなコピーの必要性が、オプスにおいても生じる（そして
実際、リファレンスに基づくどんなデータ構造でも生じる。オプスとトラックは
MIDI要素のほとんど全てのケースをカバーしなければならないにもかかわらず）。
これがオプスを丸ごとコピーするために$opus->copyが存在する理由である。

(If you happen to need to copy a single event, it's just $new = [@$old] ;
and if you happen to need to copy an event structure (LoL) outside of a
track for some reason, use MIDI::Event::copy_structure.)

（単一のイベントをコピーする必要があるなら、単に$new = [@$old]でよい。
何らかの理由で一つのトラックを越えてイベント構造（リストのリスト）を
コピーする必要が出たらMIDI::Event::copy_structureを使うこと。）

=item $track->events( @events )

Returns the list of events in the track, possibly after having set it
to @events, if specified and not empty.  (If you happen to want to set
the list of events to an empty list, for whatever reason, you have to use
"$track->events_r([])".)

トラックのイベントリストを返す。あるいは、@eventsを指定し、それが空でなければ
その値がセットされる（理由は何であれ、リストイベントに空リストをセットしたい
ならば、"$track->events_r([])"を使わなければならない）。

In other words: $track->events(@events) is how to set the list of events
(assuming @events is not empty), and @events = $track->events is how to
read the list of events.

つまり、（@eventsは空でないとして）$track->events(@events)はイベントリストの
セット方法で、@events = $track->eventsはイベントリストの取得方法である。

=item $track->events_r( $event_r )

Returns a reference to the list of events in the track, possibly after
having set it to $events_r, if specified.  Actually, "$events_r" can be
any listref to a LoL, whether it comes from a scalar as in
C<$some_events_r>, or from something like C<[@events]>, or just plain
old C<\@events>

トラックのイベントリストへのリファレンスを返す。あるいは、$events_rを指定すると
リファレンスがセットされる。実際のところ、"$events_r"はリストのリスト(LoL)への
リファレンスでありさえすればよいので、C<$some_events_r>からだろうと、
C<[@events]>からだろうと、古き簡素なC<\@events>からだろうと構わない。

Originally $track->events was the only way to deal with events, but I
added $track->events_r to make possible 1) setting the list of events
to (), for whatever that's worth, and 2) so you can directly
manipulate the track's events, without having to I<copy> the list of
events (which might be tens of thousands of elements long) back
and forth.  This way, you can say:

もともと$track->eventsがイベントを扱う唯一の方法だった。だが私が
$track->events_rを付け加えたのは、(1)イベントリストを何らかの有意義な理由で
丸括弧()にセットできるようにするため。(2)（10000要素の長さにもなるような）
イベントリストを前後でI<コピー>しなくても、直接トラックイベントを操作できる
ようにするためである。そこでこのように書くことができる：

          $events_r = $track->events_r();
          @some_stuff = splice(@$events_r, 4, 6);

But if you don't know how to deal with listrefs outside of LoLs,
that's OK, just use $track->events.

だが配列の配列を越えてリストリファレンスの扱い方を知らなくても、大丈夫。
$track->eventsを使えばよい。

=item $track->type( 'MFoo' )

Returns the type of $track, after having set it to 'MFoo', if provided.
You probably won't ever need to use this method, other than in
a context like:

$trackのタイプを返す。'MFoo'を与えれば、それがセットされる。たぶん次のような
文脈以外では、このメソッドを使う必要が生じることはないだろう：

          if( $track->type eq 'MTrk' ) { # 普通の場合
            give_up_the_funk($track);
          } # それ以外なら処理を続けよう！

Track types must be 4 bytes long; see L<MIDI::Filespec> for details.

トラックタイプは4バイト長でなければならない。
詳細はL<MIDI::Filespec>を参照のこと。

=item $track->data( $kooky_binary_data )

Returns the data from $track, after having set it to
$kooky_binary_data, if provided -- even if it's zero-length!  You
probably won't ever need to use this method.  For your information,
$track->data(undef) is how to undefine the data for a track.

$trackからデータを返す。$kooky_binary_dataを与えれば、それがセットされる。
これは0サイズのデータでもよい！たぶんこのメソッドを使う必要が生じることは
ないだろう。参考までにいうと、$track->data(undef)は、
トラックデータを未定義にする方法である。

=item $track->new_event('event', ...parameters... )

This adds the event ('event', ...parameters...) to the end of the
event list for $track.  It's just sugar for:

$trackのイベントリストの最後にイベント('event', ...parameters...)を
付け加える。これは次のコードの構文糖に他ならない：

          push( @{$this_track->events_r}, [ 'event', ...params... ] )

If you want anything other than the equivalent of that, like some
kinda splice(), then do it yourself with $track->events_r or
$track->events.

もしもこれ以上のこと、例えばsplice()のようなことをしたいなら、
$track->events_rや$track->eventsを使って自分自身でやること。

=item $track->dump({ ...options... })

This dumps the track's contents for your inspection.  The dump format
is code that looks like Perlcode you'd use to recreate that track.
This routine outputs with just C<print>, so you can use C<select> to
change where that'll go.  I intended this to be just an internal
routine for use only by the method MIDI::Opus::dump, but I figure it
might be useful to you, if you need te dump the code for just a given
track.
Read the source if you really need to know how this works.

このメソッドは、あなたが内容を確かめられるようにトラックの内容を
ダンプする。ダンプ形式はPerlのコードようなものだ。このコードを使えば
トラックを復元することができる。
このルーチンはC<print>を使って出力する。だから出力先を変えるためには
C<select>を使うことになる。私はこのルーチンをMIDI::Opus::dumpだけから
利用される内部ルーチンにしようとした。だが、特定のトラックだけを
ダンプしたい人にとって便利になるよう図った。このルーチンがどのような
動作をするのか本当に知りたいなら、ソースを見てもらいたい。


=back

=head1 著作権

Copyright (c) 1998-2002 Sean M. Burke. All rights reserved.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 作者

Sean M. Burke C<sburke@cpan.org>

