=head1 名前

Class::DBI::ColumnGrouper - カラムとカラムグループ

=head1 概要

	my $colg = Class::DBI::ColumnGrouper->new;
	   $colg->add_group(People => qw/star director producer/);

	my @cols = $colg->group_cols($group);

	my @all            = $colg->all_columns;
	my @pri_col        = $colg->primary;
	my @essential_cols = $colg->essential;

=head1 説明

Each Class::DBI class maintains a list of its columns as class data.
This provides an interface to that. You probably don't want to be dealing
with this directly.

各Class::DBIクラスはクラスデータとして自身のカラムリストを維持する。
このモジュールはそれに対するインターフェースを提供する。
恐らこのモジュールを直接扱うべきではない。

=head1 メソッド

=head2 new

	my $colg = Class::DBI::ColumnGrouper->new;

A new blank ColumnnGrouper object.

新しい空のColumnnGrouperオブジェクト。

=head2 add_group

	$colg->add_group(People => qw/star director producer/);

This adds a list of columns as a column group.

カラムグループとしてカラムのリストを加える。

=head2 column 

	my Class::DBI::Column $col = $cols->column($name);

Return a Column object for the given column name.

指定したカラム名に対するカラムオブジェクトを返す。

=head2 group_cols

	my @colg = $cols->group_cols($group);

This returns a list of all columns which are in the given group.

指定されたグループ内にある全カラムのリストを返す。

=head2 all_columns

	my @all = $colg->all_columns;

This returns a list of all the real columns.

実際にあるカラムを全てリストで返す。


=head2 primary

	my $pri_col = $colg->primary;

This returns a list of the columns in the Primary group.

Primaryグループにあるカラムのリストを返す。

=head2 essential

	my @essential_cols = $colg->essential;

This returns a list of the columns in the Essential group.

Essentialグループにあるカラムのリストを返す。

