
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

Class::DBI::Query - Class::DBIのためのSQL管理

=head1 概要

	my $sth = Class::DBI::Query
		->new({ 
			owner => $class, 
			sqlname => $type, 
			essential => \@columns, 
			where_columns => \@where_cols,
		})
		->run($val);


=head1 説明

This abstracts away many of the details of the Class::DBI underlying SQL
mechanism. For the most part you probably don't want to be interfacing
directly with this.

このモジュールは、SQLメカニズムに基づくClass::DBIの詳細を抽象化する。
大部分において、あなたは恐らく直接このモジュールを使ってインタフェース化
しようとは思わないだろう。

The underlying mechanisms are not yet stable, and are subject to change
at any time.

基礎をなしている仕組みはまだ安定していない。いつでも変更の対象となる。

=head1 オプション

A Query can have many options set before executing. Most can either be
passed as an option to new(), or set later if you are building the query
up dynamically:

Queryモジュールは実行前にセットする多くのオプションを持つ。ほとんどは
new()にオプションとして渡すか、あるいは動的に問い合わせを構築する
場合、後からセットするかできる。

=head2 owner

The Class::DBI subclass that 'owns' this query. In the vast majority
of cases a query will return objects - the owner is the class of
which instances will be returned. 

Class::DBIのサブクラスがこの問い合わせを'所有'する。大概の場合に
おいて、問い合わせはオブジェクト―インスタンスが返えされるクラスが
その所有者となる―を返す。


=head2 sqlname

This should be the name of a query set up using set_sql.

set_sqlを使って設定される問い合わせの名前。

=head2 where_clause

This is the raw SQL that will substituted into the 'WHERE %s' in your
query. If you have multiple %s's in your query then you should supply
a listref of where_clauses. This SQL can include placeholders, which will be 
used when you call run().

これは生のSQL文であり、あなたの問い合わせの中で'WHERE %s'に置換される。
問い合わせの中で複数の%sを使った場合、where_clausesのリストリファレンスを
用意しなければならない。

=head2 essential

When retrieving rows from the database that match the WHERE clause of
the query, these are the columns that we fetch back and pre-load the
resulting objects with. By default this is the Essential column group
of the owner class.

データベースから問い合わせのWHERE句にマッチする行を取り出すとき、
それらは我々が取り出し、結果オブジェクトをプリロードするカラムである。
デフォルトでは、これはその所有クラスのEssentialカラムグループである。

=head1 メソッド

=head2 where()

	$query->where($match, @columns);

This will extend your 'WHERE' clause by adding a 'AND $column = ?' (or
whatever $match is, isntead of "=") for each column passed. If you have
multiple WHERE clauses this will extend the last one.

このメソッドは、渡された各カラムに対応した'AND $column = ?'（あるいは
"="の代わりに$matchであればなんでも）を加えることで、'WHERE'句を拡張する。
複数のWHERE句がある場合、このメソッドは最後の一つを拡張する。

