=head1 名前

DBIx::Class::Manual::Glossary - 使われている用語の説明

=head1 イントロダクション

This document lists various terms used in DBIx::Class and attempts to
explain them.

このドキュメントにはDBIx::Classで使われている様々な用語のリストがあり、
それについて説明します。

=head1 用語

=head2 Inflation(インフレーション)

The act of turning database row data into objects in
language-space. DBIx::Class further allows you to inflate your data
into perl objects which more usefully represent their contents. For
example: L<DBIx::Class::InflateColumn::DateTime> for datetime or
timestamp column data.

データベースの列のデータを言語-スペースのオブジェクトに変える作用のこと。
DBIx::Classデータをその中身を表すのに、より便利なperlのオブジェクトにインフレートできます。
例えば: datetimeやtimestampカラムデータ用に、L<DBIx::Class::InflateColumn::Datetime>があります。

=head2 Join

This is an SQL keyword that gets mentioned a lot. It is used to fetch
data from more than one table at once, by C<join>ing the tables on
fields where they have common data.

これは、よく言及されるSQLのキーワードです。それらのテーブルの共通のデータのある
フィールドでテーブルをC<join>することで、一度に2つ以上のテーブルからデータを
取得するのに使われます。

=head2 Normalisation(正規化)

A normalised database is a sane database. Each table contains only
data belonging to one concept, related tables refer to the key field
or fields of each other. Some links to webpages about normalisation
can be found in L<DBIx::Class::Manual::FAQ|the FAQ>.

正規化されたデータベースは健全なデータベースです。
それぞれのテーブルがひとつのコンセプトに属しているデータのみを含み、
関連するテーブルは、キーフィールドや、お互いのフィールドを参照します。
正規化につていてのwebpageへのいくつかのリンクが、L<DBIx::Class::Manual::FAQ|the FAQ>
にあります。

=head2 ORM

Object-relational mapping, or Object-relationship modelling. Either
way it's a method of mapping the contents of database tables (rows),
to objects in programming-language-space. DBIx::Class is an ORM.

オブジェクト-リレーショナル マッピング もしくは、 オブジェクト-リレーションシップ
モデリング。いずれにせよ、データベースのテーブル(列)を、
プログラミング言語のスペースにマッピングする方法です。DBIx::ClassはORMです。

=head2 ResultSet

This is an object representing a set of data. It can either be an
entire table, or the results of a query. The actual data is not held
in the ResultSet, it is only a description of how to fetch the data.

データのセットを意味するオブジェクトのことです。
テーブル全部でも、クエリの結果でもありえます。
ResultSetには実際のデータはありません。
データをどのように取得するかの説明のみです。

See also: L<DBIx::Class::ResultSet/METHODS>

=head2 ResultSource

ResultSource objects represent the source of your data, they are also known as
a table objects. 

ResultSourceオブジェクトはデータのソースを意味します。
テーブルオブジェクトとしても知られています。

See also: L<DBIx::Class::ResultSource/METHODS>

=head2 Record

See Row.

Rowを見てください。

=head2 Row(列)

Row objects contain your actual data. They are returned from ResultSet objects.

列は実際のデータを含むオブジェクトです。ResultSetオブジェクトから返されます。

=head2 Object

See Row.

Rowを見てください。

=head2 Schema(スキーマ)

A Schema object represents your entire table collection, plus the
connection to the database. You can create one or more schema objects,
connected to various databases, with various users, using the same set
of table (ResultSource) definitions.

スキーマオブジェクトはテーブルのコレクションと、データベースへの接続を意味します。
様々なデータベースや、複数のユーザーで、接続するために、
同じテーブルのセット(ResultSource)の定義を使って、
1つ以上のスキーマオブジェクトを作れます。

=head1 翻訳について

翻訳者：加藤敦 (ktat.is at gmail.com)

Perlドキュメント日本語訳 Project にて、
Perlモジュール、ドキュメントの翻訳を行っております。

 http://perldocjp.sourceforge.jp/
 http://sourceforge.jp/projects/perldocjp/
 http://www.freeml.com/perldocjp/
 http://www.perldoc.jp

=cut
