=head1 NAME

Test::Unit::TestRunner - ユニットテストフレームワークのヘルパークラス

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Test::Unit::TestRunner;

    my $testrunner = Test::Unit::TestRunner->new();
    $testrunner->start($my_test_class);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is the test runner for the command line style use
of the testing framework.

このクラスはコマンドライン形式でテスティングフレームワークを
用いるテストランナーです。

It is used by simple command line tools like the F<TestRunner.pl>
script provided.

F<TestRunner.pl> スクリプトが提供しているようにシンプルな
コマンドラインツールによって使われます。

The class needs one argument, which is the name of the class
encapsulating the tests to be run.

このクラスは、実行されるテストをカプセルに包むクラス名である
１つの引数を必要とします。

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -wait

wait for user confirmation between tests

テストの間にユーザの確認を待ちます。

=item -v

version info

バージョン情報

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

Framework JUnit authored by Kent Beck and Erich Gamma.

Ported from Java to Perl by Christian Lemburg.

Copyright (c) 2000 Christian Lemburg, E<lt>lemburg@acm.orgE<gt>.

All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

Thanks go to the other PerlUnit framework people: 
Brian Ewins, Cayte Lindner, J.E. Fritz, Zhon Johansen.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Test::Unit::TestCase>

=item *

L<Test::Unit::Listener>

=item *

L<Test::Unit::TestSuite>

=item *

L<Test::Unit::Result>

=item *

L<Test::Unit::TkTestRunner>

=item *

For further examples, take a look at the framework self test
collection (t::tlib::AllTests).

更なる例は、このフレームワーク自体のテスト（t::tlib::AllTests）を
見てください。

=back

=head1 翻訳について

翻訳者：IWAI, Masaharu E<lt>iwai@alib.jpE<gt>

Perlドキュメント日本語訳 Project にて、
Perlモジュール、ドキュメントの翻訳を行っております。

 L<http://sourceforge.jp/projects/perldocjp/>
 L<http://www.freeml.com/ctrl/html/MLInfoForm/perldocjp@freeml.com>
 L<http://perldoc.jp/>

=cut

