=head1 NAME

Test::Unit::Tutorial - ユニットテストのチュートリアル

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    perldoc Test::Unit::Tutorial

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Here should be extensive documentation on what unit testing is, why it
is useful, and how to do it with the Test::Unit collection of modules.

ここには、ユニットテストが何故有用なのか、どのようにして Test::Unit
モジュール群を使ってユニットテストを行うのなどユニットテストについての
多数のドキュメントがあるべきです。

Sorry for not implementing this yet.

でも、まだ書けていません。ごめんなさい。

Please have a look at the examples in the examples directory and read
the F<README> file that came with this distribution.

配布物に付属している examples ディレクトリの中の例を見たり、
F<README> ファイルを読んだりしてください。

A short tutorial on how to use the unit testing framework is included
in L<Test::Unit::TestCase>.

ユニットテストフレームワークを使うための短いチュートリアルは
L<Test::Unit::TestCase> の中にあります。

Further examples can be found by looking at the self test collection,
starting in t::tlib::AllTests.

更なる例は、t::tlib::AllTests にあるこのフレームワーク自体のテストで
見ることができます。

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Lemburg E<lt>lemburg@acm.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

The module documentation for all modules in the Test::Unit tree.

Test::Unit のモジュール群全てのドキュメント

=item *

I<Refactoring. Improving The Design Of Existing Code.>
Martin Fowler. Addison-Wesley, 1999.

=item *

The JUnit (unit testing framework for Java) documentation. 

（Java のためのユニットテストフレームワークである）JUnit のドキュメント

=item *

http://www.xProgramming.com/

=back

=head1 翻訳について

翻訳者：IWAI, Masaharu E<lt>iwaim.sub@gmail.comE<gt>

Perlドキュメント日本語訳 Project にて、
Perlモジュール、ドキュメントの翻訳を行っております。

 L<http://sourceforge.jp/projects/perldocjp/>
 L<http://www.freeml.com/ctrl/html/MLInfoForm/perldocjp@freeml.com>
 L<http://perldoc.jp/>

=cut

