
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

Thread::Detach - Windows上での壊れたthreads->detachの修正

=head1 概要

    use Thread::Detach ();   # 修正の適用

=head1 解説

                  *** A note of CAUTION ***

 This module only functions on Perl versions 5.8.0 and later.
 And then only when threads are enabled with -Dusethreads.  It
 is of no use with any version of Perl before 5.8.0 or without
 threads enabled.

                  *************************

                  *** 注   意   書   き ***

 このモジュールは、Perlのバージョン5.8.0以降で、かつ、-Dusethreads
 オプションでスレッドが有効になっている場合にのみ機能する。5.8.0以前、
 あるいはスレッドが有効になっていない場合は、使うことができない。

                  *************************

Perl versions before 5.8.4 don't support the "detach" method of the L<threads>
module B<on Windows>!.  This module provides a temporary fix for this problem
if it is running under Windows and with a version of Perl that has the problem.
In any other situation, this module does B<nothing>.

Perlのバージョン5.8.4より前では、B<Windows上で>L<threads>モジュールの"detach"
メソッドがサポートされていない！　このモジュールは、Windows上で実行されて、
かつ、その問題を抱えたPerlのバージョンである場合に、暫定的な修正を提供する。
それ以外の状況では、このモジュールはB<何もしない>。

=head1 操作の理論

All of this happens on Windows B<only> and if the version of the Perl executor
is known to have the problem.

これは全てWindows上でB<のみ>発生し、かつ、Perl実行ファイルのバージョンが
その問題を抱えているものと知られている場合である。

This module replaces the standard C<threads->detach> method with another
subroutine that just sets an internal flag to mark the thread as "detached".

このモジュールは標準的なC<threads->detach>メソッドを別のサブルーチンで
置き換える。このルーチンは単に内部フラグをセットして、そのスレッドを
"detached"として印付ける。

Futhermore it uses L<Thread::Exit> to register a subroutine that is executed
after each thread is finished executing: this subroutine marks the thread as
"done" if the thread was marked as "detached" earlier.

さらに加えて、L<Thread::Exit>を使って、各スレッドが実行処理を終了した後に
実行されるサブルーチンを登録する：このサブルーチンは、もしそのスレッドが
既に"detached"の印がつけられている場合に、"done"として印付ける。

Lastly, it uses L<Thread::Exit> to register a subroutine that is executed
at the beginning of each thread: this subroutine reaps all the threads that
were marked "done", hence providing the necessary cleanup.

最後に、L<Thread::Exit>を使って各スレッドが始まるときに実行される
サブルーチンを登録する：このサブルーチンは"done"の印がつけられたスレッドを
全て刈り取る。これにより必要なクリーンアップが提供される。

=head1 必要なモジュール

 Thread::Exit (0.08)

=head1 TODO

Maybe the reliance on Thread::Exit should be replaced by some more direct
magic.  Using Thread::Exit made this module all the more simple, though.

Thread::Exitの信頼性は、より直接的な方法によって置き換えられるべきであろう。
しかし、Thread::Exitの使用により、このモジュールはよりシンプルになった。

Examples should be added.

例の追加。

=head1 作者

Elizabeth Mattijsen, <liz@dijkmat.nl>.

Please report bugs to <perlbugs@dijkmat.nl>.

=head1 著作権

Copyright (c) 2004 Elizabeth Mattijsen <liz@dijkmat.nl>. All rights
reserved.  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 参照

L<threads>, L<Thread::Exit>.

