
=encoding utf8

=for comment
Consistent formatting of this file is achieved with:
  perl ./Porting/podtidy pod/perlinterp.pod

=head1 NAME

=begin original

perlinterp - An overview of the Perl interpreter

=end original

perlinterp - Perl インタプリタの概要

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This document provides an overview of how the Perl interpreter works at
the level of C code, along with pointers to the relevant C source code
files.

=end original

この文書は、C コードのレベルで Perl インタプリタがどのように動作しているかの
概要を、関連する C ソースコードファイルへのポインタと共に提供します。

=head1 ELEMENTS OF THE INTERPRETER

(インタプリタの要素)

=begin original

The work of the interpreter has two main stages: compiling the code
into the internal representation, or bytecode, and then executing it.
L<perlguts/Compiled code> explains exactly how the compilation stage
happens.

=end original

インタプリタの動作には二つの主要なステージがあります:
コードを内部表現(バイトコード)にコンパイルし、それを実行します。
L<perlguts/Compiled code> は、コンパイルステージがどのように起こるかを
正確に説明しています。

=begin original

Here is a short breakdown of perl's operation:

=end original

perl の操作について簡単に説明します:

=head2 Startup

(開始)

=begin original

The action begins in F<perlmain.c>. (or F<miniperlmain.c> for miniperl)
This is very high-level code, enough to fit on a single screen, and it
resembles the code found in L<perlembed>; most of the real action takes
place in F<perl.c>

=end original

アクションは F<perlmain.c> で始まります(miniperl の場合は
F<miniperlmain.c>)。
これは非常に高レベルのコードで、一つの画面に収まります;
また、L<perlembed> のコードに似ています;
実際のアクションのほとんどは F<perl.c> で行われます。

=begin original

F<perlmain.c> is generated by C<ExtUtils::Miniperl> from
F<miniperlmain.c> at make time, so you should make perl to follow this
along.

=end original

F<perlmain.c> は C<ExtUtils::Miniperl> によって F<miniperlmain.c> から
make 時に生成されますので、perl はこれに従うようにしてください。

=begin original

First, F<perlmain.c> allocates some memory and constructs a Perl
interpreter, along these lines:

=end original

まず、F<perlmain.c> はメモリを割り当て、次の行に従って Perl インタプリタを
構築します:

    1 PERL_SYS_INIT3(&argc,&argv,&env);
    2
    3 if (!PL_do_undump) {
    4     my_perl = perl_alloc();
    5     if (!my_perl)
    6         exit(1);
    7     perl_construct(my_perl);
    8     PL_perl_destruct_level = 0;
    9 }

=begin original

Line 1 is a macro, and its definition is dependent on your operating
system. Line 3 references C<PL_do_undump>, a global variable - all
global variables in Perl start with C<PL_>. This tells you whether the
current running program was created with the C<-u> flag to perl and
then F<undump>, which means it's going to be false in any sane context.

=end original

1 行目はマクロで、その定義はオペレーティングシステムによって異なります。
3 行目はグローバル変数 C<PL_do_undump> を参照しています;
Perl のグローバル変数はすべて C<PL_> で始まります。
これにより、現在実行中のプログラムが perl に対して C<-u> フラグを付けて
作成され、次に F<undump> フラグを付けて作成されたかどうかがわかります。
これは、まともなコンテキストでは偽になることを意味します。

=begin original

Line 4 calls a function in F<perl.c> to allocate memory for a Perl
interpreter. It's quite a simple function, and the guts of it looks
like this:

=end original

4 行目では、Perl インタプリタにメモリを割り当てるために
F<perl.c> の関数を呼び出しています。
これは非常に単純な関数で、その中身は次のようになります:

 my_perl = (PerlInterpreter*)PerlMem_malloc(sizeof(PerlInterpreter));

=begin original

Here you see an example of Perl's system abstraction, which we'll see
later: C<PerlMem_malloc> is either your system's C<malloc>, or Perl's
own C<malloc> as defined in F<malloc.c> if you selected that option at
configure time.

=end original

C<PerlMem_malloc> は、システムの C<malloc> か、または F<malloc.c> で
定義されている Perl 自身の C<malloc> (設定時にこのオプションを選択した場合)の
いずれかです。

=begin original

Next, in line 7, we construct the interpreter using perl_construct,
also in F<perl.c>; this sets up all the special variables that Perl
needs, the stacks, and so on.

=end original

次に、7 行目で、同じく F<perl.c> で perl_construct を使用して
インタプリタを作成します;
これにより、Perl が必要とするすべての特殊変数やスタックなどが設定されます。

=begin original

Now we pass Perl the command line options, and tell it to go:

=end original

次に、Perl にコマンドラインオプションを渡し、実行するように指示します:

 exitstatus = perl_parse(my_perl, xs_init, argc, argv, (char **)NULL);
 if (!exitstatus)
     perl_run(my_perl);

 exitstatus = perl_destruct(my_perl);

 perl_free(my_perl);

=begin original

C<perl_parse> is actually a wrapper around C<S_parse_body>, as defined
in F<perl.c>, which processes the command line options, sets up any
statically linked XS modules, opens the program and calls C<yyparse> to
parse it.

=end original

C<perl_parse> は実際には、F<perl.c> で定義されている C<S_parse_body> の
ラッパーです;
このラッパーはコマンドラインオプションを処理し、静的にリンクされた
XS モジュールを設定し、プログラムを開き、C<yyparse> を
呼び出して構文解析します。

=head2 Parsing

(パース)

=begin original

The aim of this stage is to take the Perl source, and turn it into an
op tree. We'll see what one of those looks like later. Strictly
speaking, there's three things going on here.

=end original

このステージの目的は、Perl ソースを取得し、それを
op 木に変換することです。
これらのうちの一つがどのように見えるかについては、後で説明します。
厳密に言えば、ここでは三つのことが起こっています。

=begin original

C<yyparse>, the parser, lives in F<perly.c>, although you're better off
reading the original YACC input in F<perly.y>. (Yes, Virginia, there
B<is> a YACC grammar for Perl!) The job of the parser is to take your
code and "understand" it, splitting it into sentences, deciding which
operands go with which operators and so on.

=end original

パーサである C<yyparse> は F<perly.c> にありますが、
元の YACC 入力を F<perly.y> で読んだ方が良いでしょう。
(そう、バージニア、これが Perl のための YACC 文法です!)。
パーサの仕事は、コードを「理解」し、それを文に分割し、
どのオペランドがどの演算子と合うかなどを決定することです。

=begin original

The parser is nobly assisted by the lexer, which chunks up your input
into tokens, and decides what type of thing each token is: a variable
name, an operator, a bareword, a subroutine, a core function, and so
on. The main point of entry to the lexer is C<yylex>, and that and its
associated routines can be found in F<toke.c>. Perl isn't much like
other computer languages; it's highly context sensitive at times, it
can be tricky to work out what sort of token something is, or where a
token ends. As such, there's a lot of interplay between the tokeniser
and the parser, which can get pretty frightening if you're not used to
it.

=end original

パーサは字句解析器の支援を受けます;
字句解析器は入力をトークンに分割し、変数名、演算子、裸の単語、サブルーチン、
コア関数など、各トークンがどのような種類のものであるかを判断します。
字句解析器への主なエントリポイントは C<yylex> です;
字句解析器とそれに関連するルーチンは F<toke.c> にあります。
Perl は他のコンピュータ言語とはあまり似ていません;
コンテキストに非常に敏感な場合があり、トークンがどのような種類の
ものであるか、トークンがどこで終わるかを理解するのは難しい場合があります。
そのため、トークン解析器とパーサの間には多くの相互作用があり、
これに慣れていないと非常に恐ろしくなります。

=begin original

As the parser understands a Perl program, it builds up a tree of
operations for the interpreter to perform during execution. The
routines which construct and link together the various operations are
to be found in F<op.c>, and will be examined later.

=end original

パーサは Perl プログラムを理解すると、実行中にインタプリタが
実行するための操作木を構築します。
さまざまな操作を構築してリンクするルーチンは F<op.c>にあり、
これは後で検討します。

=head2 Optimization

(最適化)

=begin original

Now the parsing stage is complete, and the finished tree represents the
operations that the Perl interpreter needs to perform to execute our
program. Next, Perl does a dry run over the tree looking for
optimisations: constant expressions such as C<3 + 4> will be computed
now, and the optimizer will also see if any multiple operations can be
replaced with a single one. For instance, to fetch the variable
C<$foo>, instead of grabbing the glob C<*foo> and looking at the scalar
component, the optimizer fiddles the op tree to use a function which
directly looks up the scalar in question. The main optimizer is C<peep>
in F<op.c>, and many ops have their own optimizing functions.

=end original

これで構文解析段階が完了し、完成した木は Perl インタプリタが
プログラムを実行するために実行する必要のある操作を表します。
次に、Perl は木を仮ここで走査して最適化を探します:
C<3 + 4> のような定数式はここで計算され、オプティマイザは複数の操作が
単一の操作に置き換えられるかどうかも調べます。
例えば、変数 C<$foo> をフェッチするために、glob C<*foo> を取得して
スカラ成分を調べる代わりに、オプティマイザは、問題のスカラを
直接検索する関数を使用するように op 木を操作します。
メインオプティマイザは F<op.c> の C<peep> であり、多くの op は
独自の最適化関数を持っています。

=head2 Running

(実行)

=begin original

Now we're finally ready to go: we have compiled Perl byte code, and all
that's left to do is run it. The actual execution is done by the
C<runops_standard> function in F<run.c>; more specifically, it's done
by these three innocent looking lines:

=end original

Perl バイトコードをコンパイルし、あとはそれを実行するだけです。
実際の実行は、F<run.c> の C<runops_standard> 関数によって行われます;
具体的には、次の三つの無邪気に見える行によって行われます:

    while ((PL_op = PL_op->op_ppaddr(aTHX))) {
        PERL_ASYNC_CHECK();
    }

=begin original

You may be more comfortable with the Perl version of that:

=end original

次のような Perl バージョンの方が使いやすいかもしれません:

    PERL_ASYNC_CHECK() while $Perl::op = &{$Perl::op->{function}};

=begin original

Well, maybe not. Anyway, each op contains a function pointer, which
stipulates the function which will actually carry out the operation.
This function will return the next op in the sequence - this allows for
things like C<if> which choose the next op dynamically at run time. The
C<PERL_ASYNC_CHECK> makes sure that things like signals interrupt
execution if required.

=end original

ええと、違うかも知れません。
とにかく、各 op には関数ポインタが含まれていて、実際に操作を実行する関数を
指定します。
この関数は、シーケンス内の次の op を返します - これにより、
C<if> のようなものが実行時に動的に次の op を選択することができます。
C<PERL_ASYNC_CHECK> は、シグナルのようなものが必要に応じて実行を
中断するようにします。

=begin original

The actual functions called are known as PP code, and they're spread
between four files: F<pp_hot.c> contains the "hot" code, which is most
often used and highly optimized, F<pp_sys.c> contains all the
system-specific functions, F<pp_ctl.c> contains the functions which
implement control structures (C<if>, C<while> and the like) and F<pp.c>
contains everything else. These are, if you like, the C code for Perl's
built-in functions and operators.

=end original

実際に呼び出される関数は PP コードと呼ばれ、四つのファイルに分散されます。
F<pp_hot.c> には最も頻繁に使用され高度に最適化された "hot"コードが含まれ、
F<pp_sys.c> にはシステム固有の関数がすべて含まれ、
F<pp_ctl.c> には制御構造を実装する関数(C<if>、C<while> など)が含まれ、
F<pp.c>にはその他のすべてが含まれます。
これらは、言ってみれば、Perl の組み込み関数と演算子の C コードです。

=begin original

Note that each C<pp_> function is expected to return a pointer to the
next op. Calls to perl subs (and eval blocks) are handled within the
same runops loop, and do not consume extra space on the C stack. For
example, C<pp_entersub> and C<pp_entertry> just push a C<CxSUB> or
C<CxEVAL> block struct onto the context stack which contain the address
of the op following the sub call or eval. They then return the first op
of that sub or eval block, and so execution continues of that sub or
block. Later, a C<pp_leavesub> or C<pp_leavetry> op pops the C<CxSUB>
or C<CxEVAL>, retrieves the return op from it, and returns it.

=end original

各 C<pp_> 関数は、次の op へのポインタを返すことが期待されていることに
注意してください。
perl サブルーチン (および eval ブロック)への呼び出しは、同じ runops
ループ内で処理され、C スタック上の余分なスペースを消費しません。
たとえば、C<pp_entersub> と C<pp_entertry> は、
C<CxSUB> または C<CxEVAL> ブロック構造体を、サブルーチン呼び出しまたは
eval に続く op のアドレスを含むコンテキストスタックにプッシュします。
次に、それらはそのサブルーチンまたは eval ブロックの最初の op を返すので、
そのサブルーチンまたはブロックの実行が継続されます。
その後、C<pp_leavesub> または C<pp_leavetry> op が 
C<CxSUB> または C<CxEVAL> をポップし、そこから return op を取得して返します。

=head2 Exception handing

(例外処理)

=begin original

Perl's exception handing (i.e. C<die> etc.) is built on top of the
low-level C<setjmp()>/C<longjmp()> C-library functions. These basically
provide a way to capture the current PC and SP registers and later
restore them; i.e. a C<longjmp()> continues at the point in code where
a previous C<setjmp()> was done, with anything further up on the C
stack being lost. This is why code should always save values using
C<SAVE_FOO> rather than in auto variables.

=end original

Perl の例外処理(C<die> など)は、低レベルの C<setjmp()>/C<longjmp()>
C ライブラリ関数の上に構築されています。
これらは基本的に、現在の PC と SP レジスタを取得し、後で復元する方法を
提供します;
つまり、C<longjmp()> は、コード内で前の C<setjmp()> が実行された時点で
継続され、C スタック上の上位のものは失われます。
これが、コードが常に自動変数ではなく C<SAVE_FOO> を使用して
値を保存すべき理由です。

=begin original

The perl core wraps C<setjmp()> etc in the macros C<JMPENV_PUSH> and
C<JMPENV_JUMP>. The basic rule of perl exceptions is that C<exit>, and
C<die> (in the absence of C<eval>) perform a C<JMPENV_JUMP(2)>, while
C<die> within C<eval> does a C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)>.

=end original

perl コアは、マクロ C<JMPENV_PUSH> と C<JMPENV_JUMP> で
C<setjmp()> などをラップします。
perl 例外の基本的なルールは、C<exit> と C<die>(C<eval> がない場合)は
C<JMPENV_JUMP(2)> を実行し、C<eval> 内の C<die> は C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> を
実行するということです。

=begin original

At entry points to perl, such as C<perl_parse()>, C<perl_run()> and
C<call_sv(cv, G_EVAL)> each does a C<JMPENV_PUSH>, then enter a runops
loop or whatever, and handle possible exception returns. For a 2
return, final cleanup is performed, such as popping stacks and calling
C<CHECK> or C<END> blocks. Amongst other things, this is how scope
cleanup still occurs during an C<exit>.

=end original

C<perl_parse()>, C<perl_run()>, C<call_sv(cv, G_EVAL)> などの
perl へのエントリポイントでは、それぞれ C<JMPENV_PUSH> を実行し、
runops ループなどに入り、考えられる例外リターンを処理します。
2 リターンの場合は、スタックをポップしたり、C<CHECK> または
C<END> ブロックを呼び出すなど、最終的なクリーンアップが実行されます。
とりわけ、C<exit> の実行中にスコープのクリーンアップが行われる方法は
このようになっています。

=begin original

If a C<die> can find a C<CxEVAL> block on the context stack, then the
stack is popped to that level and the return op in that block is
assigned to C<PL_restartop>; then a C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> is performed.
This normally passes control back to the guard. In the case of
C<perl_run> and C<call_sv>, a non-null C<PL_restartop> triggers
re-entry to the runops loop. The is the normal way that C<die> or
C<croak> is handled within an C<eval>.

=end original

C<die> がコンテキストスタック上に C<CxEVAL> ブロックを見つけることが
できる場合、スタックはそのレベルにポップされ、そのブロック内の return op が
C<PL_restartop> に割り当てられます;
次に C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> が実行されます。
これにより、通常は制御がガードに戻されます。
C<perl_run> と C<call_sv> の場合、非 NULL の C<PL_restartop> が
runops ループへの再エントリを引き起こします。
これは、C<eval> 内で C<die> または C<croak> を処理する通常の方法です。

=begin original

Sometimes ops are executed within an inner runops loop, such as tie,
sort or overload code. In this case, something like

=end original

内部 runops ループ(tie、sort、overload コードなど)内で op が
実行されることがあります。
この場合、以下のようになります:

    sub FETCH { eval { die } }

=begin original

would cause a longjmp right back to the guard in C<perl_run>, popping
both runops loops, which is clearly incorrect. One way to avoid this is
for the tie code to do a C<JMPENV_PUSH> before executing C<FETCH> in
the inner runops loop, but for efficiency reasons, perl in fact just
sets a flag, using C<CATCH_SET(TRUE)>. The C<pp_require>,
C<pp_entereval> and C<pp_entertry> ops check this flag, and if true,
they call C<docatch>, which does a C<JMPENV_PUSH> and starts a new
runops level to execute the code, rather than doing it on the current
loop.

=end original

これは、C<perl_run> のガードに対して longjmp を引き起こし、両方の
runops ループをポップさせますが、これは明らかに正しくありません。
これを回避する一つの方法は、内部 runops ループで C<FETCH> を実行する前に、
tie コードが C<JMPENV_PUSH> を実行することですが、効率性の理由から、
perl は実際には C<CATCH_SET(TRUE)> を使用してフラグを設定するだけです。
C<pp_require>, C<pp_entereval>, C<pp_entertry> op はこのフラグをチェックし、
真の場合は C<docatch> を呼び出します;
これは C<JMPENV_PUSH> を実行し、新しい runops レベルを開始して
コードを実行します;
現在のループでは実行されません。

=begin original

As a further optimisation, on exit from the eval block in the C<FETCH>,
execution of the code following the block is still carried on in the
inner loop. When an exception is raised, C<docatch> compares the
C<JMPENV> level of the C<CxEVAL> with C<PL_top_env> and if they differ,
just re-throws the exception. In this way any inner loops get popped.

=end original

さらなる最適化として、C<FETCH> の eval ブロックを終了すると、
ブロックに続くコードの実行は依然として内側のループで実行されます。
例外が発生すると、C<docatch> は C<CxEVAL> の C<JMPENV> レベルと
C<PL_top_env> を比較し、両者が異なる場合は例外を再スローします。
このようにして、内側のループはポップされます。

=begin original

Here's an example.

=end original

以下は例です:

    1: eval { tie @a, 'A' };
    2: sub A::TIEARRAY {
    3:     eval { die };
    4:     die;
    5: }

=begin original

To run this code, C<perl_run> is called, which does a C<JMPENV_PUSH>
then enters a runops loop. This loop executes the eval and tie ops on
line 1, with the eval pushing a C<CxEVAL> onto the context stack.

=end original

このコードを実行するために、C<perl_run> が呼び出され、C<JMPENV_PUSH> を
実行して runops ループに入ります。
このループは 1 行目の eval と tie op を実行します;
eval は C<CxEVAL> をコンテキストスタックにプッシュします。

=begin original

The C<pp_tie> does a C<CATCH_SET(TRUE)>, then starts a second runops
loop to execute the body of C<TIEARRAY>. When it executes the entertry
op on line 3, C<CATCH_GET> is true, so C<pp_entertry> calls C<docatch>
which does a C<JMPENV_PUSH> and starts a third runops loop, which then
executes the die op. At this point the C call stack looks like this:

=end original

C<pp_tie> は C<CATCH_SET(TRUE)> を実行し、2 番目の runops ループを開始して
C<TIEARRAY> の本体を実行します。
3 行目の entertry op を実行すると、C<CATCH_GET> は真であるため、
C<pp_entertry> は C<docatch> を呼び出して C<JMPENV_PUSH> を実行し、
3 番目の runops ループを開始して die op を実行します。
この時点で、C コールスタックは次のようになります。

    Perl_pp_die
    Perl_runops      # third loop
    S_docatch_body
    S_docatch
    Perl_pp_entertry
    Perl_runops      # second loop
    S_call_body
    Perl_call_sv
    Perl_pp_tie
    Perl_runops      # first loop
    S_run_body
    perl_run
    main

=begin original

and the context and data stacks, as shown by C<-Dstv>, look like:

=end original

コンテキストスタックとデータスタックは、C<-Dstv> で示すように、
次のようになります:

    STACK 0: MAIN
      CX 0: BLOCK  =>
      CX 1: EVAL   => AV()  PV("A"\0)
      retop=leave
    STACK 1: MAGIC
      CX 0: SUB    =>
      retop=(null)
      CX 1: EVAL   => *
    retop=nextstate

=begin original

The die pops the first C<CxEVAL> off the context stack, sets
C<PL_restartop> from it, does a C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)>, and control returns
to the top C<docatch>. This then starts another third-level runops
level, which executes the nextstate, pushmark and die ops on line 4. At
the point that the second C<pp_die> is called, the C call stack looks
exactly like that above, even though we are no longer within an inner
eval; this is because of the optimization mentioned earlier. However,
the context stack now looks like this, ie with the top CxEVAL popped:

=end original

die はコンテキストスタックから最初の C<CxEVAL> をポップし、そこから
C<PL_restartop> をセットし、C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> を実行し、制御はトップの
C<docatch> に戻ります。
これにより、もう一つの第 3 レベルの runops レベルが開始され、
4 行目の nextstate、pushmark、die ops が実行されます。
2 番目の C<pp_die> が呼び出された時点で、C のコールスタックは上記と
まったく同じように見えますが、内側の eval 内ではありません;
これは前述の最適化のためです。
しかし、コンテキストスタックは次のように見えます;
つまり、トップ CxEVAL がポップされます:

    STACK 0: MAIN
      CX 0: BLOCK  =>
      CX 1: EVAL   => AV()  PV("A"\0)
      retop=leave
    STACK 1: MAGIC
      CX 0: SUB    =>
      retop=(null)

=begin original

The die on line 4 pops the context stack back down to the CxEVAL,
leaving it as:

=end original

4 行目の die は、コンテキストスタックを CxEVAL にポップダウンし、
次のように残します:

    STACK 0: MAIN
      CX 0: BLOCK  =>

=begin original

As usual, C<PL_restartop> is extracted from the C<CxEVAL>, and a
C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> done, which pops the C stack back to the docatch:

=end original

いつものように、C<CxEVAL> から C<PL_restartop> が抽出され、
C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> が実行されて C スタックが docatch に戻されます:

    S_docatch
    Perl_pp_entertry
    Perl_runops      # second loop
    S_call_body
    Perl_call_sv
    Perl_pp_tie
    Perl_runops      # first loop
    S_run_body
    perl_run
    main

=begin original

In  this case, because the C<JMPENV> level recorded in the C<CxEVAL>
differs from the current one, C<docatch> just does a C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)>
and the C stack unwinds to:

=end original

この場合、C<CxEVAL> に記録されている C<JMPENV> レベルが現在のレベルと
異なるため、C<docatch> は C<JMPENV_JUMP(3)> を実行し、C スタックは
以下のように巻き戻します:

    perl_run
    main

=begin original

Because C<PL_restartop> is non-null, C<run_body> starts a new runops
loop and execution continues.

=end original

C<PL_restartop> は NULL でないため、C<run_body> は新しい runops ループを
開始し、実行が継続されます。

=head2 INTERNAL VARIABLE TYPES

(内部変数型)

=begin original

You should by now have had a look at L<perlguts>, which tells you about
Perl's internal variable types: SVs, HVs, AVs and the rest. If not, do
that now.

=end original

L<perlguts> を見ると、Perl の内部変数型(SV、HV、AVなど)について
知ることができます。
そうでない場合は、今すぐ見てください。

=begin original

These variables are used not only to represent Perl-space variables,
but also any constants in the code, as well as some structures
completely internal to Perl. The symbol table, for instance, is an
ordinary Perl hash. Your code is represented by an SV as it's read into
the parser; any program files you call are opened via ordinary Perl
filehandles, and so on.

=end original

これらの変数は、Perl スペース変数だけでなく、コード内の任意の定数や、
完全に Perl 内部の構造体を表すためにも使用されます。
例えば、シンボルテーブルは通常の Perl ハッシュです。
コードはパーサに読み込まれるときに SV によって表されます;
呼び出したプログラムファイルは通常の Perl ファイルハンドルを
介して開かれます; といったことです。

=begin original

The core L<Devel::Peek|Devel::Peek> module lets us examine SVs from a
Perl program. Let's see, for instance, how Perl treats the constant
C<"hello">.

=end original

コア L<Devel::Peek|Devel::Peek> モジュールを使用すると、Perl プログラムから
SV を調べることができます。
例えば、Perl が定数 C<"hello"> をどのように処理するかを見てみましょう。

      % perl -MDevel::Peek -e 'Dump("hello")'
    1 SV = PV(0xa041450) at 0xa04ecbc
    2   REFCNT = 1
    3   FLAGS = (POK,READONLY,pPOK)
    4   PV = 0xa0484e0 "hello"\0
    5   CUR = 5
    6   LEN = 6

=begin original

Reading C<Devel::Peek> output takes a bit of practise, so let's go
through it line by line.

=end original

C<Devel::Peek> の出力を読むには少し練習が必要なので、1 行ずつ
見ていきましょう。

=begin original

Line 1 tells us we're looking at an SV which lives at C<0xa04ecbc> in
memory. SVs themselves are very simple structures, but they contain a
pointer to a more complex structure. In this case, it's a PV, a
structure which holds a string value, at location C<0xa041450>. Line 2
is the reference count; there are no other references to this data, so
it's 1.

=end original

1 行目は、メモリ内の C<0xa04ecbc> に存在する SV を見ていることを示しています。
SV 自体は非常に単純な構造ですが、より複雑な構造へのポインタを含んでいます。
この場合は、それは PV で、場所 C<0xa041450> にある文字列値を保持する構造です。
2 行目は参照カウントです; このデータへの他の参照はないので 1 です。

=begin original

Line 3 are the flags for this SV - it's OK to use it as a PV, it's a
read-only SV (because it's a constant) and the data is a PV internally.
Next we've got the contents of the string, starting at location
C<0xa0484e0>.

=end original

3 行目はこの SV のフラグです -
これをPVとして使用しても問題ありません;
これは読み取り専用の SV (定数であるため)であり、データは内部的に PV です。
次に、位置 C<0xa0484e0> から始まる文字列の内容を取得します。

=begin original

Line 5 gives us the current length of the string - note that this does
B<not> include the null terminator. Line 6 is not the length of the
string, but the length of the currently allocated buffer; as the string
grows, Perl automatically extends the available storage via a routine
called C<SvGROW>.

=end original

5 行目は、文字列の現在の長さを示しています - これは
ヌル終端文字が含まれて B<いない> ことに注意してください。
6 行目は文字列の長さではなく、現在割り当てられているバッファの長さです;
文字列が大きくなると、Perl は自動的に C<SvGROW> というルーチンを使って
利用可能な記憶域を拡張します。

=begin original

You can get at any of these quantities from C very easily; just add
C<Sv> to the name of the field shown in the snippet, and you've got a
macro which will return the value: C<SvCUR(sv)> returns the current
length of the string, C<SvREFCOUNT(sv)> returns the reference count,
C<SvPV(sv, len)> returns the string itself with its length, and so on.
More macros to manipulate these properties can be found in L<perlguts>.

=end original

これらの値は C から非常に簡単に得ることができます;
スニペットに示されているフィールドの名前に C<Sv> を追加するだけで、
その値を返すマクロができます:
C<SvCUR(sv)> は文字列の現在の長さを返し、C<SvREFCOUNT(sv)> は
参照カウントを返し、C<SvPV(sv, len)> は文字列そのものとその長さを返します。
これらのプロパティを操作するもっと多くのマクロは L<perlguts> にあります。

=begin original

Let's take an example of manipulating a PV, from C<sv_catpvn>, in
F<sv.c>

=end original

F<sv.c> の C<sv_catpvn> から PV を操作する例を見てみましょう。

     1  void
     2  Perl_sv_catpvn(pTHX_ SV *sv, const char *ptr, STRLEN len)
     3  {
     4      STRLEN tlen;
     5      char *junk;

     6      junk = SvPV_force(sv, tlen);
     7      SvGROW(sv, tlen + len + 1);
     8      if (ptr == junk)
     9          ptr = SvPVX(sv);
    10      Move(ptr,SvPVX(sv)+tlen,len,char);
    11      SvCUR(sv) += len;
    12      *SvEND(sv) = '\0';
    13      (void)SvPOK_only_UTF8(sv);          /* validate pointer */
    14      SvTAINT(sv);
    15  }

=begin original

This is a function which adds a string, C<ptr>, of length C<len> onto
the end of the PV stored in C<sv>. The first thing we do in line 6 is
make sure that the SV B<has> a valid PV, by calling the C<SvPV_force>
macro to force a PV. As a side effect, C<tlen> gets set to the current
value of the PV, and the PV itself is returned to C<junk>.

=end original

これは、長さ C<len> の文字列 C<ptr> を、C<sv> に保存されている PV の末尾に
追加する関数です。
6 行目で最初に行うことは、C<SvPV_force> マクロを呼び出して PV を
強制することによって、SV が有効な PV を B<持っている> ことを確認することです。
副作用として、C<tlen> は PV の現在の値に設定され、PV 自体は C<junk> に
戻されます。

=begin original

In line 7, we make sure that the SV will have enough room to
accommodate the old string, the new string and the null terminator. If
C<LEN> isn't big enough, C<SvGROW> will reallocate space for us.

=end original

7 行目では、SV に古い文字列、新しい文字列、ヌルターミネータを収容する
十分なスペースがあることを確認しています。
C<LEN> が十分に大きくない場合は、C<SvGROW> がスペースを再割り当てします。

=begin original

Now, if C<junk> is the same as the string we're trying to add, we can
grab the string directly from the SV; C<SvPVX> is the address of the PV
in the SV.

=end original

C<junk> が追加しようとしている文字列と同じであれば、その文字列を SV から
直接取得できます;
C<SvPVX> は SV 内の PV のアドレスです。

=begin original

Line 10 does the actual catenation: the C<Move> macro moves a chunk of
memory around: we move the string C<ptr> to the end of the PV - that's
the start of the PV plus its current length. We're moving C<len> bytes
of type C<char>. After doing so, we need to tell Perl we've extended
the string, by altering C<CUR> to reflect the new length. C<SvEND> is a
macro which gives us the end of the string, so that needs to be a
C<"\0">.

=end original

10 行目で実際の結合が行われます:
C<Move> マクロはメモリの塊を移動します:
文字列 C<ptr> を PV の末尾に移動します - 
これは PV の先頭に現在の長さを加えたものです。
C<char> 型の C<len> バイトを移動します。
その後、新しい長さを反映するように C<CUR> を変更して文字列を拡張したことを
Perl に伝える必要があります。
C<SvEND> は文字列の末尾を与えるマクロなので、C<"\0"> である必要があります。

=begin original

Line 13 manipulates the flags; since we've changed the PV, any IV or NV
values will no longer be valid: if we have C<$a=10; $a.="6";> we don't
want to use the old IV of 10. C<SvPOK_only_utf8> is a special
UTF-8-aware version of C<SvPOK_only>, a macro which turns off the IOK
and NOK flags and turns on POK. The final C<SvTAINT> is a macro which
launders tainted data if taint mode is turned on.

=end original

13 行目はフラグを操作します;
PV を変更したため、IV や NV の値は無効になります:
C<$a=10; $a.="6";> があれば、古い IV の 10 は使いたくありません。
C<SvPOK_only_utf8> は C<SvPOK_only> の特別な UTF-8 対応バージョンで、
IOK と NOK フラグをオフにし、POK をオンにするマクロです。
最後の C<SvTAINT> は、汚染チェックモードがオンになっていれば、汚染された
データを洗浄するマクロです。

=begin original

AVs and HVs are more complicated, but SVs are by far the most common
variable type being thrown around. Having seen something of how we
manipulate these, let's go on and look at how the op tree is
constructed.

=end original

AV と HV はもっと複雑ですが、SV は群を抜いて最も一般的な変数型です。
これらを操作する方法を見てきたので、次に op 木がどのように構築されるかを
見ていきましょう。

=head1 OP TREES

(op 木)

=begin original

First, what is the op tree, anyway? The op tree is the parsed
representation of your program, as we saw in our section on parsing,
and it's the sequence of operations that Perl goes through to execute
your program, as we saw in L</Running>.

=end original

まず、op 木とは何でしょうか?
op 木は、構文解析のセクションで説明したように、プログラムを構文解析した
表現であり、L</Running> で説明したように、Perl がプログラムを実行するために
行う一連の操作です。

=begin original

An op is a fundamental operation that Perl can perform: all the
built-in functions and operators are ops, and there are a series of ops
which deal with concepts the interpreter needs internally - entering
and leaving a block, ending a statement, fetching a variable, and so
on.

=end original

op は Perl が実行できる基本的な操作です:
すべての組み込み関数と演算子は op であり、ブロックの出入り、文の
終了、変数のフェッチなど、インタプリタが内部的に必要とする概念を処理する
一連の op があります。

=begin original

The op tree is connected in two ways: you can imagine that there are
two "routes" through it, two orders in which you can traverse the tree.
First, parse order reflects how the parser understood the code, and
secondly, execution order tells perl what order to perform the
operations in.

=end original

op 木は二つの方法で接続されています:
op 木には二つの「ルート」があり、ツリーをトラバースできる二つの
順序があると想像できます。
第 1 に、構文解析順序はパーサがコードをどのように理解したかを反映し、
第 2 に、実行順序は perl に操作を実行する順序を指示します。

=begin original

The easiest way to examine the op tree is to stop Perl after it has
finished parsing, and get it to dump out the tree. This is exactly what
the compiler backends L<B::Terse|B::Terse>, L<B::Concise|B::Concise>
and L<B::Debug|B::Debug> do.

=end original

op 木を調べる最も簡単な方法は、Perl が構文解析を完了した後で Perl を停止し、
Perl に木をダンプさせることです。
これはまさに、コンパイラのバックエンド L<B::Terse|B::Terse>、
L<B::Concise|B::Concise>、L<B::Debug|B::Debug> が行うことです。

=begin original

Let's have a look at how Perl sees C<$a = $b + $c>:

=end original

Perl が C<$a = $b + $c> をどのように見るかを見てみましょう。

     % perl -MO=Terse -e '$a=$b+$c'
     1  LISTOP (0x8179888) leave
     2      OP (0x81798b0) enter
     3      COP (0x8179850) nextstate
     4      BINOP (0x8179828) sassign
     5          BINOP (0x8179800) add [1]
     6              UNOP (0x81796e0) null [15]
     7                  SVOP (0x80fafe0) gvsv  GV (0x80fa4cc) *b
     8              UNOP (0x81797e0) null [15]
     9                  SVOP (0x8179700) gvsv  GV (0x80efeb0) *c
    10          UNOP (0x816b4f0) null [15]
    11              SVOP (0x816dcf0) gvsv  GV (0x80fa460) *a

=begin original

Let's start in the middle, at line 4. This is a BINOP, a binary
operator, which is at location C<0x8179828>. The specific operator in
question is C<sassign> - scalar assignment - and you can find the code
which implements it in the function C<pp_sassign> in F<pp_hot.c>. As a
binary operator, it has two children: the add operator, providing the
result of C<$b+$c>, is uppermost on line 5, and the left hand side is
on line 10.

=end original

真ん中の 4 行目から始めましょう。
これは BINOP (二項演算子)で、位置 C<0x8179828> にあります。
問題となっている特定の演算子は C<sassign> - スカラ代入 - です;
この演算子を実装するコードは、F<pp_hot.c> の関数 C<pp_sassign> にあります。
二項演算子としては二つの子があります:
C<$b+$c> の結果を与える加算演算子は 5 行目の一番上にあり、左側は
10 行目にあります。

=begin original

Line 10 is the null op: this does exactly nothing. What is that doing
there? If you see the null op, it's a sign that something has been
optimized away after parsing. As we mentioned in L</Optimization>, the
optimization stage sometimes converts two operations into one, for
example when fetching a scalar variable. When this happens, instead of
rewriting the op tree and cleaning up the dangling pointers, it's
easier just to replace the redundant operation with the null op.
Originally, the tree would have looked like this:

=end original

10 行目は null op です: これは何もしません。
そこで何をしているのでしょう?
null op が表示された場合は、解析後に何かが最適化されたことを示しています。
L</Optimization> で説明したように、最適化ステージでは、スカラ変数を
フェッチする場合など、二つの演算が一つに変換されることがあります。
このような場合は、op 木を書き直して相手がいないポインタを
クリーンアップする代わりに、冗長な演算を null op に置き換える方が簡単です。
本来、木は次のように表示されます:

    10          SVOP (0x816b4f0) rv2sv [15]
    11              SVOP (0x816dcf0) gv  GV (0x80fa460) *a

=begin original

That is, fetch the C<a> entry from the main symbol table, and then look
at the scalar component of it: C<gvsv> (C<pp_gvsv> in F<pp_hot.c>)
happens to do both these things.

=end original

つまり、メインシンボルテーブルから C<a> エントリを取得し、その
スカラコンポーネントを調べます:
C<gsvsv>(F<pp_hot.c> の C<pp_gsvsv>)は、これらの両方を実行します。

=begin original

The right hand side, starting at line 5 is similar to what we've just
seen: we have the C<add> op (C<pp_add>, also in F<pp_hot.c>) add
together two C<gvsv>s.

=end original

5 行目から始まる右側は、先ほど見たものと似ています:
C<add> op (C<pp_add> も F<pp_hot.c> にあります) が二つの C<gsvsv> を
加算します。

=begin original

Now, what's this about?

=end original

ここで、これは何でしょう?

     1  LISTOP (0x8179888) leave
     2      OP (0x81798b0) enter
     3      COP (0x8179850) nextstate

=begin original

C<enter> and C<leave> are scoping ops, and their job is to perform any
housekeeping every time you enter and leave a block: lexical variables
are tidied up, unreferenced variables are destroyed, and so on. Every
program will have those first three lines: C<leave> is a list, and its
children are all the statements in the block. Statements are delimited
by C<nextstate>, so a block is a collection of C<nextstate> ops, with
the ops to be performed for each statement being the children of
C<nextstate>. C<enter> is a single op which functions as a marker.

=end original

C<enter> と C<leave> はスコープ op であり、それらの仕事は、ブロックに
入ったり出たりするたびにハウスキーピングを実行することです:
レキシカル変数は整理され、参照されていない変数は破棄され、などです。
すべてのプログラムには最初の 3 行があります:
C<leave> はリストであり、その子はブロック内のすべての文です。
文は C<nextstate> で区切られているため、ブロックは
C<nextstate> op の集合であり、各文に対して実行される op は
C<nextstate> の子となります。
C<enter> はマーカーとして機能する単一の op です。

=begin original

That's how Perl parsed the program, from top to bottom:

=end original

このようにして、Perl はプログラムを上から下まで構文解析しました:

                        Program
                           |
                       Statement
                           |
                           =
                          / \
                         /   \
                        $a   +
                            / \
                          $b   $c

=begin original

However, it's impossible to B<perform> the operations in this order:
you have to find the values of C<$b> and C<$c> before you add them
together, for instance. So, the other thread that runs through the op
tree is the execution order: each op has a field C<op_next> which
points to the next op to be run, so following these pointers tells us
how perl executes the code. We can traverse the tree in this order
using the C<exec> option to C<B::Terse>:

=end original

しかし、この順序で操作を B<実行> することは不可能です:
例えば、C<$b> と C<$c> の値を見つけてから、それらを一緒に追加する
必要があります。
そのため、op 木を通るもう一つの糸は実行順序です:
各 op には、次に実行される op を指すフィールド C<op_next> があるので、
これらのポインタに従って perl がどのようにコードを実行するかを
知ることができます。
C<exec> オプションを C<B::Terse> に指定すると、この順序で木を走査できます:

     % perl -MO=Terse,exec -e '$a=$b+$c'
     1  OP (0x8179928) enter
     2  COP (0x81798c8) nextstate
     3  SVOP (0x81796c8) gvsv  GV (0x80fa4d4) *b
     4  SVOP (0x8179798) gvsv  GV (0x80efeb0) *c
     5  BINOP (0x8179878) add [1]
     6  SVOP (0x816dd38) gvsv  GV (0x80fa468) *a
     7  BINOP (0x81798a0) sassign
     8  LISTOP (0x8179900) leave

=begin original

This probably makes more sense for a human: enter a block, start a
statement. Get the values of C<$b> and C<$c>, and add them together.
Find C<$a>, and assign one to the other. Then leave.

=end original

これはおそらく人間にとってより分かりやすいでしょう:
ブロックにを入り、文を開始します。
C<$b> と C<$c> の値を取得し、それらを加算します。
C<$a> を検索し、一方をもう一方に代入します。
そして離れます。

=begin original

The way Perl builds up these op trees in the parsing process can be
unravelled by examining F<toke.c>, the lexer, and F<perly.y>, the YACC
grammar. Let's look at the code that constructs the tree for C<$a = $b +
$c>.

=end original

Perl が構文解析プロセスでこれらの op 木を構築する方法は、
字句解析器である F<toke.c> と、YACC 文法である
F<perly.y> を調べることによって解明できます。
C<$a = $b + $c> の木を構築するためのコードを見てみましょう:

=begin original

First, we'll look at the C<Perl_yylex> function in the lexer. We want to
look for C<case 'x'>, where x is the first character of the operator.
(Incidentally, when looking for the code that handles a keyword, you'll
want to search for C<KEY_foo> where "foo" is the keyword.) Here is the code
that handles assignment (there are quite a few operators beginning with
C<=>, so most of it is omitted for brevity):

=end original

First, we'll look at the C<Perl_yylex> function in the lexer. We want to
look for C<case 'x'>, where x is the first character of the operator.
(Incidentally, when looking for the code that handles a keyword, you'll
want to search for C<KEY_foo> where "foo" is the keyword.) Here is the code
that handles assignment (there are quite a few operators beginning with
C<=>, so most of it is omitted for brevity):
(TBT)

     1    case '=':
     2        s++;
              ... code that handles == => etc. and pod ...
     3        pl_yylval.ival = 0;
     4        OPERATOR(ASSIGNOP);

=begin original

We can see on line 4 that our token type is C<ASSIGNOP> (C<OPERATOR> is a
macro, defined in F<toke.c>, that returns the token type, among other
things). And C<+>:

=end original

We can see on line 4 that our token type is C<ASSIGNOP> (C<OPERATOR> is a
macro, defined in F<toke.c>, that returns the token type, among other
things). And C<+>:
(TBT)

     1     case '+':
     2         {
     3             const char tmp = *s++;
                   ... code for ++ ...
     4             if (PL_expect == XOPERATOR) {
                       ...
     5                 Aop(OP_ADD);
     6             }
                   ...
     7         }

=begin original

Line 4 checks what type of token we are expecting. C<Aop> returns a token.
If you search for C<Aop> elsewhere in F<toke.c>, you will see that it
returns an C<ADDOP> token.

=end original

Line 4 checks what type of token we are expecting. C<Aop> returns a token.
If you search for C<Aop> elsewhere in F<toke.c>, you will see that it
returns an C<ADDOP> token.
(TBT)

=begin original

Now that we know the two token types we want to look for in the parser,
let's take the piece of F<perly.y> we need to construct the tree for
C<$a = $b + $c>

=end original

Now that we know the two token types we want to look for in the parser,
let's take the piece of F<perly.y> we need to construct the tree for
C<$a = $b + $c>
(TBT)

    1 term    :   term ASSIGNOP term
    2                { $$ = newASSIGNOP(OPf_STACKED, $1, $2, $3); }
    3         |   term ADDOP term
    4                { $$ = newBINOP($2, 0, scalar($1), scalar($3)); }

=begin original

If you're not used to reading BNF grammars, this is how it works:
You're fed certain things by the tokeniser, which generally end up in
upper case. C<ADDOP> and C<ASSIGNOP> are examples of "terminal symbols",
because you can't get any simpler than
them.

=end original

BNF 文法を読むことに慣れていない人は、次のように動作します:
ある種のものをトークナイザによって供給されます;
それは通常大文字になります。
C<ADDOP> と C<ASSIGNOP> は「終端記号」の例です;
これ以上単純なものは得られないからです。

=begin original

The grammar, lines one and three of the snippet above, tells you how to
build up more complex forms. These complex forms, "non-terminal
symbols" are generally placed in lower case. C<term> here is a
non-terminal symbol, representing a single expression.

=end original

上のスニペットの1 行目と3 行目の文法では、より複雑な形式を
構築する方法が説明されています。
これらの複合形式である「非終端記号」は、通常は小文字で配置されます。
ここで C<term> は、単一の式を表す非終端記号です。

=begin original

The grammar gives you the following rule: you can make the thing on the
left of the colon if you see all the things on the right in sequence.
This is called a "reduction", and the aim of parsing is to completely
reduce the input. There are several different ways you can perform a
reduction, separated by vertical bars: so, C<term> followed by C<=>
followed by C<term> makes a C<term>, and C<term> followed by C<+>
followed by C<term> can also make a C<term>.

=end original

文法は次の規則を与えます: 右側のすべてのものを順番に見れば、
コロンの左側のものを作ることができます。
これは「還元」(reduction)と呼ばれ、構文解析の目的は入力を完全に
還元することです。
還元を実行するにはいくつかの異なる方法があり、縦棒で区切られています:
つまり、C<term> の後に C<=> と C<term> が続くと C<term> を作成し、
C<term> の後に C<+> と C<term> が続いても C<term> を作成できます。

=begin original

So, if you see two terms with an C<=> or C<+>, between them, you can
turn them into a single expression. When you do this, you execute the
code in the block on the next line: if you see C<=>, you'll do the code
in line 2. If you see C<+>, you'll do the code in line 4. It's this
code which contributes to the op tree.

=end original

それで、二つの項の間に C<=> または C<+> がある場合、それらを一つの式に
変換できます。
これを行うときは、次の行のブロック内のコードを実行します:
C<=> がある場合は 2 行目のコードを実行します。
C<+> がある場合は 4 行目のコードを実行します。
このコードが op 木に貢献しています。

            |   term ADDOP term
            { $$ = newBINOP($2, 0, scalar($1), scalar($3)); }

=begin original

What this does is creates a new binary op, and feeds it a number of
variables. The variables refer to the tokens: C<$1> is the first token
in the input, C<$2> the second, and so on - think regular expression
backreferences. C<$$> is the op returned from this reduction. So, we
call C<newBINOP> to create a new binary operator. The first parameter
to C<newBINOP>, a function in F<op.c>, is the op type. It's an addition
operator, so we want the type to be C<ADDOP>. We could specify this
directly, but it's right there as the second token in the input, so we
use C<$2>. The second parameter is the op's flags: 0 means "nothing
special". Then the things to add: the left and right hand side of our
expression, in scalar context.

=end original

これにより、新しいバイナリ op が作成され、多数の変数が渡されます。
変数はトークンを参照します:
C<$1> は入力の最初のトークン、C<$2> は 2 番目のトークン、という形です -
正規表現の後方参照を考えてみてください。
C<$$> はこの還元から返される op です。
そこで、C<newBINOP> を呼び出して新しい二項演算子を作成します。
F<op.c> にある関数である C<newBINOP> の最初の引数は op 型です。
これは加算演算子なので、型が C<ADDOP> になってほしいです。
これを直接指定することもできますが、これは入力の 2 番目のトークンとして
すぐそこにあるので、C<$2> を使用します。
2 番目の引数は op のフラグです:
0 は「特別なものがない」ことを意味します。
次に追加すべきものは、スカラコンテキストでの式の左辺と右辺です。

=begin original

The functions that create ops, which have names like C<newUNOP> and
C<newBINOP>, call a "check" function associated with each op type, before
returning the op. The check functions can mangle the op as they see fit,
and even replace it with an entirely new one. These functions are defined
in F<op.c>, and have a C<Perl_ck_> prefix. You can find out which
check function is used for a particular op type by looking in
F<regen/opcodes>.  Take C<OP_ADD>, for example. (C<OP_ADD> is the token
value from the C<Aop(OP_ADD)> in F<toke.c> which the parser passes to
C<newBINOP> as its first argument.) Here is the relevant line:

=end original

The functions that create ops, which have names like C<newUNOP> and
C<newBINOP>, call a "check" function associated with each op type, before
returning the op. The check functions can mangle the op as they see fit,
and even replace it with an entirely new one. These functions are defined
in F<op.c>, and have a C<Perl_ck_> prefix. You can find out which
check function is used for a particular op type by looking in
F<regen/opcodes>.  Take C<OP_ADD>, for example. (C<OP_ADD> is the token
value from the C<Aop(OP_ADD)> in F<toke.c> which the parser passes to
C<newBINOP> as its first argument.) Here is the relevant line:
(TBT)

    add             addition (+)            ck_null         IfsT2   S S

=begin original

The check function in this case is C<Perl_ck_null>, which does nothing.
Let's look at a more interesting case:

=end original

この場合のチェック関数は C<Perl_ck_null> で、これは何もしません。
もっと興味深い場合を見てみましょう:

    readline        <HANDLE>                ck_readline     t%      F?

=begin original

And here is the function from F<op.c>:

=end original

そしてこれが F<op.c> からの関数です:

     1 OP *
     2 Perl_ck_readline(pTHX_ OP *o)
     3 {
     4     PERL_ARGS_ASSERT_CK_READLINE;
     5 
     6     if (o->op_flags & OPf_KIDS) {
     7          OP *kid = cLISTOPo->op_first;
     8          if (kid->op_type == OP_RV2GV)
     9              kid->op_private |= OPpALLOW_FAKE;
    10     }
    11     else {
    12         OP * const newop
    13             = newUNOP(OP_READLINE, 0, newGVOP(OP_GV, 0,
    14                                               PL_argvgv));
    15         op_free(o);
    16         return newop;
    17     }
    18     return o;
    19 }

=begin original

One particularly interesting aspect is that if the op has no kids (i.e.,
C<readline()> or C<< <> >>) the op is freed and replaced with an entirely
new one that references C<*ARGV> (lines 12-16).

=end original

ここでの特に興味深い要素は、もし op に子がいない
(つまり C<readline()> または C<< <> >>) 場合、
この op は解放され、C<*ARGV> を参照する新しいものに完全に置き換えられる
ことです (lines 12-16)。

=head1 STACKS

(スタック)

=begin original

When perl executes something like C<addop>, how does it pass on its
results to the next op? The answer is, through the use of stacks. Perl
has a number of stacks to store things it's currently working on, and
we'll look at the three most important ones here.

=end original

perl が C<addop> のようなものを実行した場合、その結果をどのように
次の op に渡すのでしょうか?
答えは、スタックを使用することです。
Perl には、現在作業中のものを保存するためのスタックが数多くありますが、
ここでは最も重要な三つのスタックについて説明します。

=head2 Argument stack

(引数スタック)

=begin original

Arguments are passed to PP code and returned from PP code using the
argument stack, C<ST>. The typical way to handle arguments is to pop
them off the stack, deal with them how you wish, and then push the
result back onto the stack. This is how, for instance, the cosine
operator works:

=end original

引数は PP コードに渡され、引数スタック C<ST> を使用して PP コードから
返されます。
引数を処理する一般的な方法は、引数をスタックから取り出し、
必要に応じて処理した後、結果をスタックにプッシュします。
たとえば、余弦演算子は次のように動作します:

      NV value;
      value = POPn;
      value = Perl_cos(value);
      XPUSHn(value);

=begin original

We'll see a more tricky example of this when we consider Perl's macros
below. C<POPn> gives you the NV (floating point value) of the top SV on
the stack: the C<$x> in C<cos($x)>. Then we compute the cosine, and
push the result back as an NV. The C<X> in C<XPUSHn> means that the
stack should be extended if necessary - it can't be necessary here,
because we know there's room for one more item on the stack, since
we've just removed one! The C<XPUSH*> macros at least guarantee safety.

=end original

以下に示す Perl のマクロを考えると、もっと巧妙な例を見ることになります。
C<POPn> はスタック上の最上位 SV の NV (浮動小数点値)を与えます:
C<cos($x)> の C<$x> です。
次にコサインを計算し、その結果を NV としてプッシュします。
C<XPUSHn> の C<X> は、必要に応じてスタックを拡張する
必要があることを意味します - ここでは必要ありません;
なぜなら、スタック上にもう一つの項目のためのスペースがあることが
わかっているからです; なぜなら、一つを削除したばかりなのです!
C<XPUSH*> マクロは少なくとも安全性を保証します。

=begin original

Alternatively, you can fiddle with the stack directly: C<SP> gives you
the first element in your portion of the stack, and C<TOP*> gives you
the top SV/IV/NV/etc. on the stack. So, for instance, to do unary
negation of an integer:

=end original

あるいは、スタックを直接操作することもできます: C<SP> は
スタックのあなたの部分の最初の要素を与え、C<TOP*> はスタック上の最上位の
SV/IV/NV などを与えます。
たとえば、整数の単項否定を行うには、次のようにします:

     SETi(-TOPi);

=begin original

Just set the integer value of the top stack entry to its negation.

=end original

最上位スタックエントリの整数値をその否定に設定するだけです。

=begin original

Argument stack manipulation in the core is exactly the same as it is in
XSUBs - see L<perlxstut>, L<perlxs> and L<perlguts> for a longer
description of the macros used in stack manipulation.

=end original

コアでの引数スタック操作は、XSUBs とまったく同じです - スタック操作で
使用されるマクロのより長い説明については、
L<perlxstut>、L<perlxs>、L<perlguts> を参照してください。

=head2 Mark stack

(マークスタック)

=begin original

I say "your portion of the stack" above because PP code doesn't
necessarily get the whole stack to itself: if your function calls
another function, you'll only want to expose the arguments aimed for
the called function, and not (necessarily) let it get at your own data.
The way we do this is to have a "virtual" bottom-of-stack, exposed to
each function. The mark stack keeps bookmarks to locations in the
argument stack usable by each function. For instance, when dealing with
a tied variable, (internally, something with "P" magic) Perl has to
call methods for accesses to the tied variables. However, we need to
separate the arguments exposed to the method to the argument exposed to
the original function - the store or fetch or whatever it may be.
Here's roughly how the tied C<push> is implemented; see C<av_push> in
F<av.c>:

=end original

上で「スタックのあなたの部分」と言ったのは、PP コードが必ずしも
スタック全体を自分自身に取得する必要はないからです:
関数が別の関数を呼び出す場合は、呼び出された関数を対象とした引数を
公開するだけで、(必ずしも)自分自身のデータを取得させるわけではありません。
これを行う方法は、各関数に公開される「仮想的な」スタックの最下位を
持つことです。
マークスタックは、各関数が使用できる引数スタック内の場所への
ブックマークを保持します。
例えば、tie された変数を扱う場合(内部では "P" マジックのようなもの)、
Perl は tie された変数にアクセスするためにメソッドを呼び出す必要があります。
ただし、メソッドに公開される引数を、元の関数に公開される引数(store や
fetch など)に分離する必要があります。
tie された C<push> がどのように実装されるかを大まかに説明します;
F<av.c> の C<av_push> を参照してください。

     1	PUSHMARK(SP);
     2	EXTEND(SP,2);
     3	PUSHs(SvTIED_obj((SV*)av, mg));
     4	PUSHs(val);
     5	PUTBACK;
     6	ENTER;
     7	call_method("PUSH", G_SCALAR|G_DISCARD);
     8	LEAVE;

=begin original

Let's examine the whole implementation, for practice:

=end original

実践のために、実装全体を調べてみましょう:

     1	PUSHMARK(SP);

=begin original

Push the current state of the stack pointer onto the mark stack. This
is so that when we've finished adding items to the argument stack, Perl
knows how many things we've added recently.

=end original

スタックポインタの現在の状態をマークスタックにプッシュします。
これは、引数スタックへの項目の追加が完了したときに、Perl が最近追加した
項目の数を知るためです。

     2	EXTEND(SP,2);
     3	PUSHs(SvTIED_obj((SV*)av, mg));
     4	PUSHs(val);

=begin original

We're going to add two more items onto the argument stack: when you
have a tied array, the C<PUSH> subroutine receives the object and the
value to be pushed, and that's exactly what we have here - the tied
object, retrieved with C<SvTIED_obj>, and the value, the SV C<val>.

=end original

引数スタックにさらに二つの項目を追加します:
tie された配列がある場合、C<PUSH> サブルーチンはオブジェクトと
プッシュされる値を受け取ります; そしてこれがここで得られるものです -
C<SvTIED_obj> で取得された tie されたオブジェクトと、
その値である SV C<val> です。

     5	PUTBACK;

=begin original

Next we tell Perl to update the global stack pointer from our internal
variable: C<dSP> only gave us a local copy, not a reference to the
global.

=end original

次に、内部変数からグローバルスタックポインタを更新するように
Perl に指示します:
C<dSp> はローカルコピーだけを提供し、グローバルへの参照は提供しません。

     6	ENTER;
     7	call_method("PUSH", G_SCALAR|G_DISCARD);
     8	LEAVE;

=begin original

C<ENTER> and C<LEAVE> localise a block of code - they make sure that
all variables are tidied up, everything that has been localised gets
its previous value returned, and so on. Think of them as the C<{> and
C<}> of a Perl block.

=end original

C<ENTER> と C<LEAVE> はコードブロックをローカル化します - すべての変数が
整理されていること、ローカル化されたすべてのものが以前の値を返すことなどを
確認します。
これらは Perl ブロックの C<{> と C<}> と考えてください。

=begin original

To actually do the magic method call, we have to call a subroutine in
Perl space: C<call_method> takes care of that, and it's described in
L<perlcall>. We call the C<PUSH> method in scalar context, and we're
going to discard its return value. The call_method() function removes
the top element of the mark stack, so there is nothing for the caller
to clean up.

=end original

マジックメソッド呼び出しを実際に行うためには、Perl 空間でサブルーチンを
呼び出す必要があります: C<call_method> がこれを処理します;
これについては L<perlcall> で説明しています。
C<PUSH> メソッドをスカラコンテキストで呼び出し、その戻り値を破棄します。
call_method() 関数はマークスタックの最上位要素を削除するため、
呼び出し側がクリーンアップするものはありません。

=head2 Save stack

(保存スタック)

=begin original

C doesn't have a concept of local scope, so perl provides one. We've
seen that C<ENTER> and C<LEAVE> are used as scoping braces; the save
stack implements the C equivalent of, for example:

=end original

C にはローカルスコープという概念がないので、perl が提供しています。
C<ENTER> と C<LEAVE> がスコープを作る中かっことして
使用されていることを見てきました;
保存スタックは以下のような C に相当するものを実装しています:

    {
        local $foo = 42;
        ...
    }

=begin original

See L<perlguts/"Localizing changes"> for how to use the save stack.

=end original

保存スタックの使用方法については、
L<perlguts/"Localizing changes"> を参照してください。

=head1 MILLIONS OF MACROS

(大量のマクロ)

=begin original

One thing you'll notice about the Perl source is that it's full of
macros. Some have called the pervasive use of macros the hardest thing
to understand, others find it adds to clarity. Let's take an example,
the code which implements the addition operator:

=end original

Perl ソースに関して気付くかも知れない一つのことは、Perl ソースには
マクロが豊富に含まれているということです。
マクロが広く使われていることを理解するのが最も難しいとする人もいれば、
マクロが明快さを増すと考える人もいます。
例えば、加算演算子を実装するコードを例にとりましょう:

   1  PP(pp_add)
   2  {
   3      dSP; dATARGET; tryAMAGICbin(add,opASSIGN);
   4      {
   5        dPOPTOPnnrl_ul;
   6        SETn( left + right );
   7        RETURN;
   8      }
   9  }

=begin original

Every line here (apart from the braces, of course) contains a macro.
The first line sets up the function declaration as Perl expects for PP
code; line 3 sets up variable declarations for the argument stack and
the target, the return value of the operation. Finally, it tries to see
if the addition operation is overloaded; if so, the appropriate
subroutine is called.

=end original

ここの各行(もちろん中かっこを除く)にはマクロが含まれています。
最初の行は、Perl が PP コードに期待する関数宣言を設定します。
3 行目は、引数スタックと操作の戻り値であるターゲットの変数宣言を設定します。
最後に、加算操作がオーバーロードされているかどうかを調べます;
オーバーロードされている場合は、適切なサブルーチンが呼び出されます。

=begin original

Line 5 is another variable declaration - all variable declarations
start with C<d> - which pops from the top of the argument stack two NVs
(hence C<nn>) and puts them into the variables C<right> and C<left>,
hence the C<rl>. These are the two operands to the addition operator.
Next, we call C<SETn> to set the NV of the return value to the result
of adding the two values. This done, we return - the C<RETURN> macro
makes sure that our return value is properly handled, and we pass the
next operator to run back to the main run loop.

=end original

5 行目はもう一つの変数宣言です -
すべての変数宣言は C<d> で始まります -
これは引数スタックの先頭から二つの NV(つまり C<nn>)を取り出し、それらを
変数 C<right> と C<left>(つまり C<rl>)に入れます。
これらは加算演算子に対する二つのオペランドです。
次に、C<SETn> を呼び出して、戻り値の NV を二つの値を加算した結果に
設定します。
これが終われば、返ります -
C<RETURN> マクロは返り値が適切に処理されていることを確認し、
メインの実行ループに戻るために次の演算子を渡します。

=begin original

Most of these macros are explained in L<perlapi>, and some of the more
important ones are explained in L<perlxs> as well. Pay special
attention to L<perlguts/Background and PERL_IMPLICIT_CONTEXT> for
information on the C<[pad]THX_?> macros.

=end original

これらのマクロのほとんどは L<perlapi> で説明されていますし、
より重要なマクロのいくつかは L<perlxs> でも説明されています。
C<[pad]THX_?> マクロに関する情報については、
L<perlguts/Background and PERL_IMPLICIT_CONTEXT> に特に注意してください。

=head1 FURTHER READING

=begin original

For more information on the Perl internals, please see the documents
listed at L<perl/Internals and C Language Interface>.

=end original

Perl の内部に関するさらなる情報については、
L<perl/Internals and C Language Interface> に挙げられている文書を
見てください。

=begin meta

Translate: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org>
Status: in progress

=end meta

