
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

POE::Pipe::OneWay - portable one-way pipe creation (works without POE)

POE::Pipe::OneWay - 移植可能な片方向パイプの生成(POE無しに動作)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my ($read, $write) = POE::Pipe::OneWay->new();
  die "couldn't create a pipe: $!" unless defined $read;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

POE::Pipe::OneWay makes unbuffered one-way pipes or it dies trying.

POE::Pipe::OneWayはバッファのない片方向のパイプを作るか挑戦して死にます。

Pipes are troublesome beasts because the different pipe creation
methods have spotty support from one system to another.  Some systems
have C<pipe()>, others have C<socketfactory()>, and still others have
neither.

異なったパイプ生成メソッドはシステムごとにむらの多いサポートを持ってい
るのでパイプはやっかいな獣です。C<pipe()>を持っているシステムがあり、他
はC<socketfactory()>を持っており、いまだにどちらも持たないものもありま
す。

POE::Pipe::OneWay tries different ways to make a pipe in the hope that
one of them will succeed on any given platform.  It tries them in
pipe() -> socketpair() -> IO::Socket::INET order.

POE::Pipe::OneWayはパイプを作るためにどんな与えられたプラットフォーム上
でもどれか一つが動くことを期待して様々な方法を試します。それらはpipe()
-> socketpair() -> IO::Socket::INETの順番で試されます。

So anyway, the syntax is pretty easy:

とにかく、構文はとても簡単です。

  my ($read, $write) = POE::Pipe::OneWay->new();
  die "couldn't create a pipe: $!" unless defined $read;

And now you have a pipe with a read side and a write side.

そして読み込み側と書き込み側を持ったパイプを手に入れることができます。

=head1 DEBUGGING

It's possible to force POE::Pipe::OneWay to use one of its underlying
pipe methods.  This was implemented for exercising each method in
tests, but it's possibly useful for others.

POE::Pipe::OneWayが内在するパイプメソッドの一つを使うように強制すること
は可能です。それはテストで各メソッドを用いるために実装されましたが、も
しかすると他のことにも役立つかもしれません。

However, forcing OneWay's pipe method isn't documented because it's
cheezy and likely to change.  Use it at your own risk.

しかし、OneWayのパイプメソッドの強制は粗末で変更されそうなのでドキュメ
ント化されていません。自己責任で使用してください。

=head1 BUGS

The INET domain socket method may block for up to 1s if it fails.

INETドメインソケットメソッドは失敗したとき最大1秒間ブロックするかもしれ
ません。

=head1 AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT

POE::Pipe::OneWay is copyright 2000 by Rocco Caputo.  All rights
reserved.  POE::Pipe::OneWay is free software; you may redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 Translators

井上 謙次 <deq@oct.zaq.ne.jp>
