
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

Thread::Use - スレッドの中でのみモジュールを使う

=head1 概要

    use Thread::Use;

    threads->new( sub {
     useit Module;
     useit Module qw(parameters);

     noit Module;
     noit Module qw(parameters);
    } );

=head1 説明

                  *** A note of CAUTION ***

 This module only functions on Perl versions 5.8.0 and later.
 And then only when threads are enabled with -Dusethreads.  It
 is of no use with any version of Perl before 5.8.0 or without
 threads enabled.

                  *************************

                  *** 注   意   書   き ***

 このモジュールは、Perlのバージョン5.8.0以降で、かつ、-Dusethreads
 オプションでスレッドが有効になっている場合にのみ機能する。5.8.0以前、
 あるいはスレッドが有効になっていない場合は、使うことができない。

                  *************************

When you are programming threaded applications and are interested in saving
memory by selectively loading modules inside threads only, you will find that
even if you C<use> a module inside a thread, it is in fact available to B<all>
threads, including the main thread.

あなたがスレッドアプリケーションをプログラミングしていて、メモリを節約
しようとスレッドの中でのみモジュールを選択的にロードしようとする。
スレッド内でモジュールをC<use>したとしても、実際にはメインスレッドも
含めてB<全>スレッドでモジュールが有効になってしまうことに気づくだろう。

This is caused by the fact that C<use> is executed at compile time.  At which
time Perl doesn't know anything about threads yet.

これはコンパイル時にC<use>が実行されてしまうという事実による。この時点では、
Perlはスレッドについてまだ何も知らないのだ。

However, some modules, specifically the ones that are (partly) implemented
in XS, do not (yet) survive the cloning process that is involved with creating
threads.  So you can only use these modules inside threads only.  But if you
C<use> a module, it will be read in at compile time.

ところが、あるモジュール、特に（部分的に）XSで実装されているものは、
スレッドが生成される際に発生するクロン処理を（まだ）生き残れない。
そのため、こういったモジュールはスレッド内でしか利用できない。しかし、
モジュールをC<use>すれば、それはコンパイル時に読み込まれてしまう。

Of course, a C<use> is nothing more than a C<require> followed by a call
to the "import" class routine (if available).  But that doesn't feel natural
to do.  So this module allows you to use the C<useit> (for B<use> B<i>n
B<t>hreads command to indicate that a module should only be used inside
a thread.

もちろん、C<use>は、C<require>と、（利用可能なら）それに引き続くクラス
ルーチンを"import"する呼び出しと同じものだ。だがそれを使うのが自然とも
思えない。そこで、このモジュールを使うと、C<useit>（B<use> B<i>n B<threads>
の意味）コマンドを使ってスレッド内でのみ利用されるモジュールを指定できる。

For example: suppose you only need the C<PerlIO::gzip> module inside a thread:

例：C<PerlIO::gzip>モジュールをスレッド内部でのみ使いたいとする：

 use Thread::Use;  # プログラム内のどこにでも置ける

 threads->new( \&zipfile,filename,contents ); # スレッドの開始

 sub zipfile {
   useit PerlIO::gzip;  # このスレッドの中でのみ使う
   open( my $out,'>:gzip', $_[0] ) or die "$_[0]: $!";
   print $out $_[1];
   close( $out );
 }

For completeness, it is also possible to pass any parameters as you would
with the C<use> command.  So:

完全を期して、C<use>コマンドで用いるであろうパラメータを渡すことも
可能だ。そこで：

 sub storable {
   useit Storable qw(freeze); # スレッドの名前空間に"freeze"をエクスポート
   my $frozen = freeze( \@_ );
 }

or to use the opposite C<no> equivalent;

あるいは、反対のC<no>でも同じように；

 sub warnings {
   useit warnings "all";
   # special code
   noit warnings "all";
 }

=head1 必要なモジュール

 (none)

（なし）

=head1 警告

This modules is still experimental and subject to change.  At the current
stage it is more a proof of concept than anything else.

このモジュールはまだ実験的であり、変更の対象である。現段階では、
他のモジュールより概念実証的である。

There is no way to C<useit> a module without having it call the "import"
class method, as you can do with C<use Module ()>.  However, a simple
C<require Module> does exactly the same, so if you want to C<useit> a module
without calling its "import" method, you should just use C<require>.

"import"クラスメソッドを呼び出さずにモジュールをC<useit>することはできない。
C<use Module ()>とするのは可能だ。しかし、単純なC<require Module>は正確に
同じ事（importしないこと）をする。そのため、モジュールをC<useit>するのに
その"import"メソッドを呼び出したくないなら、単にC<require>を使うべきだ。

=head1 作者

Elizabeth Mattijsen, <liz@dijkmat.nl>.

Please report bugs to <perlbugs@dijkmat.nl>.

=head1 著作権

Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Elizabeth Mattijsen <liz@dijkmat.nl>. All rights
reserved.  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 参考

L<threads>.

