
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

PAR::Dist - PARディストリビューションの作成と操作

=head1 概要

As a shell command:

シェルコマンドで：

    % perl -MPAR::Dist -eblib_to_par

In programs:

プログラムから：

    use PAR::Dist;

    my $dist = blib_to_par();	# ./blib/を使ってPARファイルを作成
    install_par($dist);		# それをシステムにインストール
    uninstall_par($dist);	# システムからアンインストール
    sign_par($dist);		# Module::Signatureを使って署名
    verify_par($dist);		# Module::Signatureを使って照合

    install_par("http://example.com/DBI-latest.par");   # これも動作する

=head1 説明

This module creates and manipulates I<PAR distributions>.  They are
architecture-specific B<PAR> files, containing everything under F<blib/>
of CPAN distributions after their C<make> or C<Build> stage.

このモジュールはI<PARディストリビューション>の生成と操作を行なう。
PARディストリビューションはアーキテクチャに特化したB<PAR>ファイルで、
C<make>あるいはC<Build>段階が済んだCPANディストリビューションの
F<blib/>下にある全ファイルを含んでいる。

The naming convention for such distributions is:

このようなディストリビューションに対する慣習的な名前は：

    NAME-VERSION-ARCH-PERL_VERSION.par

For example, C<PAR-Dist-0.01-i386-freebsd-5.8.0.par> corresponds to the
0.01 release of C<PAR-Dist> on CPAN, built for perl 5.8.0 running on
C<i386-freebsd>.

例えば、C<PAR-Dist-0.01-i386-freebsd-5.8.0.par>は、
CPANのC<PAR-Dist>リリース0.01、C<i386-freebsd>上で実行される
perl 5.8.0用にビルトされたものに対応する。

=head1 関数

Five functions are exported by default.  They can take either a hash of
named arguments, a single C<$dist> argument, or no arguments (in which case
the first PAR file in the current directory is used).

デフォルトでは五つの関数がエクスポートされる。これらの関数は、名前付き
引数のハッシュ、単一のC<$dist>引数、あるいは引数無し
（現在のディレクトリにある最初のPARファイルを使う場合）のいずれかを
取ることができる。

Therefore, under a directory containing only a single F<test.par>, all
invocations below are equivalent:

よって、ただF<test.par>だけを含むディレクトリ下では、下記の呼び出しは
全て等価である：

    % perl -MDist::PAR -e"install_par( dist => 'test.par' )"
    % perl -MDist::PAR -e"install_par( 'test.par' )"
    % perl -MDist::PAR -einstall_par;

If C<$dist> resembles a URL, C<LWP::Simple::mirror> is called to mirror it
locally under C<$ENV{PAR_TEMP}> (or C<$TEMP/par/> if unspecified), and the
function will act on the fetched local file instead.

C<$dist>がURLに似ている場合、C<LWP::Simple::mirror>が呼び出されて
ローカルのC<$ENV{PAR_TEMP}>（未指定の場合はC<$TEMP/par/>）下に
ミラーする。この場合そのローカルファイルに対して関数は作用する。


=head2 blib_to_par

Builds a PAR distribution from the F<blib/> subdirectory under C<$path>, or
under the current directory if unspecified.  If F<blib/> does not exist,
it automatically runs C<Build>, C<make>, C<Build.PL> or C<Makefile.PL> to
create it.

C<$path>下、あるいは指定していなければ現在のディレクトリ下の
F<blib/>サブディレクトリからPARディストリビューションをビルトする。
F<blib/>が存在しない場合、そのディレクトリを作成するために
C<Build>、C<make>、C<Build.PL>あるいはC<Makefile.PL>が自動的に実行される。

Returns the filename or the generated PAR distribution.

戻り値はファイル名か生成されたPARディストリビューション。

=head2 install_par

Installs a PAR distribution into the system, using
C<ExtUtils::Install::install_default>.

PARディストリビューションをシステムにインストールする。これは
C<ExtUtils::Install::install_default>を使ってなされる。

=head2 uninstall_par

Uninstalls all previously installed contents of a PAR distribution,
using C<ExtUtils::Install::uninstall>.

以前インストールしたPARディストリビューションをアンインストールする。
これはC<ExtUtils::Install::uninstall>を使ってなされる。

=head2 sign_par

Digitally sign a PAR distribution using C<gpg> or B<Crypt::OpenPGP>,
via B<Module::Signature>.

PARディストリビューションにデジタル署名を行なう。これは
B<Module::Signature>を通じてC<gpg>かB<Crypt::OpenPGP>を使ってなされる。

=head2 verify_par

Verify the digital signature of a PAR distribution using C<gpg> or
B<Crypt::OpenPGP>, via B<Module::Signature>.

PARディストリビューションのデジタル署名を照合する。これは
B<Module::Signature>を通じてC<gpg>かB<Crypt::OpenPGP>を使ってなされる。

Returns a boolean value indicating whether verification passed; C<$!>
is set to the return code of C<Module::Signature::verify>.

照合が通るかどうかを示すのにブール値が返される；C<$!>に
C<Module::Signature::verify>の返りコードがセットされる。

=head1 参考

L<PAR>, L<ExtUtils::Install>, L<Module::Signature>, L<LWP::Simple>

=head1 作者

Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>

PAR has a mailing list, E<lt>par@perl.orgE<gt>, that you can write to;
send an empty mail to E<lt>par-subscribe@perl.orgE<gt> to join the list
and participate in the discussion.

Please send bug reports to E<lt>bug-par@rt.cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 著作権

Copyright 2003 by Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

