=head1 NAME

XML::FOAF - FOAF (Friend of a Friend) データを解析

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use XML::FOAF;
    use URI;
    my $foaf = XML::FOAF->new(URI->new('http://foo.com/my.foaf'));
    print $foaf->person->mbox, "\n";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<XML::FOAF> provides an object-oriented interface to FOAF (Friend of a Friend)
data.

I<XML::FOAF> は FOAF (Friend of a Friend) データのオブジェクト指向インタフェースを
提供します。

=head1 USAGE

=head2 XML::FOAF->new($data [, $base_uri ])

Reads in FOAF data from I<$data> and parses it. Returns a I<XML::FOAF> object
on success, C<undef> on error. If an error occurs, you can call

    XML::FOAF->errstr

to get the text of the error.

I<$data> から FOAF データを読み込んで解析します。成功したならば、
I<XML::FOAF> オブジェクトを返し、エラーの場合は C<undef> を返します。
もしエラーが発生したならば、

    XML::FOAF->errstr

を呼びましょう。エラーについて説明したテキストを取得できます。

I<$base_uri> is the base URI to be used in constructing absolute
URLs from resources defined in your FOAF data, and is required unless I<$data>
is a URI object, in which case the I<$base_uri> can be obtained from that
URI.

I<$base_uri> は FOAF で定義されたリソースから絶対 URL を構築するために
使われる規定 URI です。I<$data> が URI オブジェクトではないときに必要となります。
URI オブジェクトであれば、そのオブジェクトから I<$base_uri> を取得します。

I<$data> can be any of the following:

I<$data> は次の中の何れかになります:

=over 4

=item * A URI object（URI オブジェクト）

An object blessed into any I<URI> subclass. For example:

    my $uri = URI->new('http://foo.com/my.foaf');
    my $foaf = XML::FOAF->new($uri);

The URI can be either for a FOAF file (for example, the above), or an HTML
page containing a C<E<lt>linkE<gt>> tag for FOAF auto-discovery:

    <link rel="meta" type="application/rdf+xml" title="FOAF" href="http://foo.com/my.foaf" />

If the URI points to an HTML page with FOAF auto-discovery enabled,
I<XML::FOAF> will parse the HTML to find the FOAF file automatically.

I<URI> のサブクラスのオブジェクトです。例えば次のようにします:

    my $uri = URI->new('http://foo.com/my.foaf');
    my $foaf = XML::FOAF->new($uri);

もし、URI が FOAF の自動探索を有効にした HTML 文書を指し示しているならば、
I<XML::FOAF> は HTML を解析して自動的に FOAF ファイルを見つけだします。

=item * A scalar reference（スカラーリファレンス）

This indicates a reference to a string containing the FOAF data. For example:

FOAF データの文字列のリファレンスを与えます。例えば次のようにします:

    my $foaf_data = <<FOAF;
    ...
    FOAF
    my $foaf = XML::FOAF->new(\$foaf_data, 'http://foo.com');

=item * A filehandle（ファイルハンドル）

An open filehandle from which the FOAF data can be read. For example:

FOAF データのファイルを開いたファイルハンドルを与えます。例えば次のようにします:

    open my $fh, 'my.foaf' or die $!;
    my $foaf = XML::FOAF->new($fh, 'http://foo.com');

=item * A file name（ファイル名）

A simple scalar containing the name of a file containing the FOAF data. For
example:

FOAF データのファイルのファイル名を単純なスカラー値として与えます。
例えば次のようにします:

    my $foaf = XML::FOAF->new('my.foaf', 'http://foo.com');

=back

=head2 $foaf->person

Returns a I<XML::FOAF::Person> object representing the main identity in the
FOAF file.

FOAF ファイルからその代表的な象徴である I<XML::FOAF::Person> オブジェクトを
返します。

=head2 $foaf->assurance

If the FOAF file indicates a PGP signature in I<wot:assurance>, the URL
for the detatched signature file will be returned, C<undef> otherwise.

もし、FOAF ファイル内で I<wot:assurance> として PGP シグネチャがあれば、
シグネチャファイルの URL を返します。そうでないならば undef を返します。

=head2 $foaf->verify

Attempts to verify the FOAF file using the PGP signature returned from
I<assurance>. I<verify> will fetch the public key associated with the
signature from a keyserver. If no PGP signature is noted in the FOAF file,
or if an error occurs, C<undef> is returned. If the signature is invalid,
C<0> is returned. If the signature is valid, the PGP identity (name and
email address, generally) of the signer is returned.

I<assurance> から返された PGP シグネチャを使って FOAF ファイルの検証を
試みます。I<verify> は、鍵サーバ（keyserver）からそのシグネチャの
公開鍵を取得します。FOAF ファイルに PGP シグネチャがない場合と
エラーが発生した場合には、C<undef> を返します。もし、正当なシグネチャ
であれば、署名の PGP identity（大抵は、名前と電子メールアドレス）を
返します。

=head1 REFERENCES

http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/

http://rdfweb.org/foaf/

=head1 LICENSE

I<XML::FOAF> is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT

Except where otherwise noted, I<XML::FOAF> is Copyright 2003 Benjamin
Trott, cpan@stupidfool.org. All rights reserved.

=head1 翻訳について

翻訳者：IWAI, Masaharu E<lt>iwai@alib.jpE<gt>

Perlドキュメント日本語訳 Project にて、
Perlモジュール、ドキュメントの翻訳を行っております。

L<http://perldocjp.sourceforge.jp/>,
L<http://www.freeml.com/ctrl/html/MLInfoForm/perldocjp@freeml.com>,
L<http://perldoc.jp/>


=cut

