
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

PAR - Perl Archive Toolkit

=head1 バージョン

This document describes version 0.75 of PAR, released September 21, 2003.

このドキュメントは2003年9月21日にリリースされたPAR 0.75について説明している。

=head1 概要

(If you want to make an executable that contains all module, scripts and
data files, please consult the bundled L<pp> utility instead.)

（もし全てのモジュール、スクリプト、データファイルを含んだ実行ファイルを作成
したいなら、代わりに、バンドルされているL<pp>ユーティリティを吟味して欲しい。）

Following examples assume a F<foo.par> file in Zip format; support for
compressed tar (F<*.tgz>/F<*.tbz2>) format is under consideration.

次の例は、Zip形式のF<foo.par>ファイルを想定している；圧縮された
tar（F<*.tgz>/F<*.tbz2>）形式のサポートは検討中である。

To use F<Hello.pm> from F<./foo.par>:

F<./foo.par>からF<Hello.pm>を使う：

    % perl -MPAR=./foo.par -MHello
    % perl -MPAR=./foo -MHello          # .par 部分はオプション

Same thing, but search F<foo.par> in the C<@INC>;

同じことだが、C<@INC>からF<foo.par>を探す；

    % perl -MPAR -Ifoo.par -MHello
    % perl -MPAR -Ifoo -MHello          # 同上

Following paths inside the PAR file are searched:

PARファイル中で以下のパスがサーチされる：

    /lib/
    /arch/
    /i386-freebsd/              # これは $Config{archname}
    /5.8.0/                     # これは $Config{version}
    /5.8.0/i386-freebsd/        # 上を両方
    /

PAR files may also (recursively) contain other PAR files.
All files under following paths will be considered as PAR
files and searched as well:

PARファイルは他のPARファイルを（再帰的に）含むこともできる。
以下のパス下の全ファイルがPARファイルとみなされ、検索される：

    /par/i386-freebsd/          # これは $Config{archname}
    /par/5.8.0/                 # これは $Config{version}
    /par/5.8.0/i386-freebsd/    # 上を両方
    /par/

Run F<script/test.pl> or F<test.pl> from F<foo.par>:

F<foo.par>からF<script/test.pl>かF<test.pl>を実行する：

    % perl -MPAR foo.par test.pl        # only when $0 ends in '.par'

However, if the F<.par> archive contains either F<script/main.pl> or
F<main.pl>, then it is used instead:

しかし、F<.par>アーカイブがF<script/main.pl>かF<main.pl>のどちからを含んでいる
なら、そのときは代わりにそれが利用される：

    % perl -MPAR foo.par test.pl        # @ARGとして'test.pl'を伴ってmain.plを実行

Use in a program:

プログラム中で使う：

    use PAR 'foo.par';
    use Hello; # foo.par内で読み込む

    # PAR::read_file()はロードされたPARファイル内のファイルを返す
    my $conf = PAR::read_file('data/MyConfig.yaml');

    # PAR::par_handle()はArchive::Zipのハンドルを返す
    my $zip = PAR::par_handle('foo.par')
    my $src = $zip->memberNamed('lib/Hello.pm')->contents;

You can also use wildcard characters:

ワイルドカードを使うこともできる：

    use PAR '/home/foo/*.par';  # そのディレクトリ内の全PARファイルをロード

=head1 説明

This module lets you easily bundle a typical F<blib/> tree into a zip
file, called a Perl Archive, or C<PAR>.

このモジュールを使えば、よくあるF<blib/>ツリーを、簡単にzipファイル
（Perl Archive、すなわちC<PAR>）にバンドルすることができる。

It supports loading XS modules by overriding B<DynaLoader> bootstrapping
methods; it writes shared object file to a temporary file at the time it
is needed.

B<DynaLoader>のブートストラップメソッドをオーバーライドすることにより、
XSモジュールのロードもサポートしている；これは必要なときに、
共有オブジェクトを一時ファイルに書き出す。

To generate a F<.par> file, all you have to do is compress the modules
under F<arch/> and F<lib/>, e.g.:

F<.par>ファイルを生成するには、F<arch/>とF<lib/>下でモジュールをコンプレス
するだけでよい。例えば：

    % perl Makefile.PL
    % make
    % cd blib
    % zip -r mymodule.par arch/ lib/

Afterward, you can just use F<mymodule.par> anywhere in your C<@INC>,
use B<PAR>, and it will Just Work.

その後、C<@INC>のパスが通っている場所でF<mymodule.par>を使い、B<PAR>
を使うだけで、正しく動く。

For convenience, you can set the C<PERL5OPT> environment variable to
C<-MPAR> to enable C<PAR> processing globally (the overhead is small
if not used); setting it to C<-MPAR=/path/to/mylib.par> will load a
specific PAR file.  Alternatively, consider using the F<par.pl> utility
bundled with this module, or using the self-contained F<parl> utility
on machines without PAR.pm installed.

便利なことに、C<-MPAR>に対して環境変数C<PERL5OPT>をセットすると、
C<PAR>がグローバルに処理を行なうことを可能にする（もし使わないなら
オーバーヘッドは小さい）；C<-MPAR=/path/to/mylib.par>に対して、変数を
セットすると、指定のPARファイルをロードする。別の方法として、この
モジュールにバンドルされているF<par.pl>ユーティリティを使うことや、
PAR.pmがインストールされていないマシン上で自己完結的なユーティリティ
F<parl>を使うことなどを考慮するとよい。

Note that self-containing scripts and executables created with F<par.pl>
and F<pp> may also be used as F<.par> archives:

F<par.pl>とF<pp>で作成された自己完結なスクリプトや実行ファイルは、
F<.par>アーカイブとして使用されることに注意：

    % pp -o packed.exe source.pl        # packed.exeを生成
    % perl -MPAR=packed.exe other.pl    # これも動作する
    % perl -MPAR -Ipacked.exe other.pl  # 同上

Please see L</SYNOPSIS> for most typical use cases.

もっとも典型的な使用例については、L</概要>を参照されたし。

=head1 注意

In the next few releases, it is expected that the F<META.yml> packed
inside the PAR file will control the default behavior of temporary file
creation, among other things; F<pp> will also provide options to set those
PAR-specific attributes.

あと数回のリリースで、色々あるが特に、PARファイル内にパックされた
F<META.yml>が一時ファイル生成についてデフォルトの振る舞いを制御する
予定だ；F<pp>もこれらPARに特有の属性を設定するオプションを提供するだろう。

Currently, F<pp>-generated PAR files will attach four such PAR-specific
attributes in F<META.yml>:

現在のところ、F<pp>によって生成されたPARファイルは、F<META.yml>において
そのようなPAR特有の属性を4つ付け加える：

    par:
      cleartemp: 0      # PAR_CLEARTEMPのデフォルト値
      signature: ''     # シグネチャファイルの key ID
      verbatim: 0       # パックされた必要物のPODファイルは保護されているか？
      version: x.xx     # このPARファイルを生成したPAR.pmのバージョン

Additional attributes, like C<cipher> and C<decrypt_key>, are being
discussed on the mailing list.  Join us if you have an idea or two!

追加的な属性として、C<cipher>とC<decrypt_key>のようなものが、
メーリングリストで議論されている。幾らかのアイディアがあるなら、ぜひ参加を！

=head1 参考

L<http://www.autrijus.org/par-tutorial/>

L<PAR::Intro>

L<par.pl>, L<parl>, L<pp>

L<Archive::Zip>, L<perlfunc/require>

L<ex::lib::zip>, L<Acme::use::strict::with::pride>

=head1 謝辞

Nicholas Clark for pointing out the mad source filter hook within the
(also mad) coderef C<@INC> hook, as well as (even madder) tricks one
can play with PerlIO to avoid source filtering.

Nicholas Clarkは、いかれたソースフィルタhookを（これまたいかれた）
コードリファレンスC<@INC>hook内で指摘してくれた。ソースフィルタリングを
回避するためにPerlIOをいじくる（さらにいかれた）細工も同様だ。

Ton Hospel for convincing me to ditch the C<Filter::Simple>
implementation.

Ton Hospelは、私にC<Filter::Simple>の実装を捨てさるよう説得しれくれた。

Uri Guttman for suggesting C<read_file> and C<par_handle> interfaces.

Uri GuttmanはC<read_file>とC<par_handle>のインターフェースを示唆してくれた。

Antti Lankila for making me implement the self-contained executable
options via C<par.pl -O>.

Antti Lankilaのおかげで、C<par.pl -O>を通じた自己完結な実行ファイル
オプションの実装ができた。

See the F<AUTHORS> file in the distribution for a list of people who
have sent helpful patches, ideas or comments.

パッチ、アイディア、コメントで助けてくれた人々のリストが
配布物のF<AUTHORS>ファイルにあるので参照してほしい。

=head1 作者

Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>

L<http://par.perl.org/> is the official PAR website.  You can write
to the mailing list at E<lt>par@perl.orgE<gt>, or send an empty mail to
E<lt>par-subscribe@perl.orgE<gt> to participate in the discussion.

Please submit bug reports to E<lt>bug-par@rt.cpan.orgE<gt>.

=head1 著作権

Copyright 2002, 2003 by Autrijus Tang E<lt>autrijus@autrijus.orgE<gt>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See L<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

