
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

Games::Goban - Board for playing go, renju, othello, etc.

Games::Goban - 碁、連珠、オセロ、その他で遊ぶための盤面

=head1 概要

  use Games::Goban;
  my $board = new Games::Goban (
                size => 19,
                game => "go",
                white => "Seigen, Go",
                black => "Minoru, Kitani",
                referee => \&Games::Goban::Rules::Go,
  );                       # 訳注：上記の関数はこのパッケージに含まれていない

  $board->play("pd"); $board->play("dd"); # 訳注：play というメソッドはない
  print $board->as_sgf;                   #       move の間違い

=head1 説明

This is a generic module for handling goban-based board games.
Theoretically, it can be used to handle many of the other games which
can use Smart Game Format (SGF) but I want to keep it reasonably
restricted in order to keep it simple.

これは碁盤を使うボードゲームを操作する汎用モジュールである。
理論的にはSmart Game Format(SGF)以外のゲームも数多く操作できるのだが、
シンプルにしておくために、合理的な制限をかけておきたいと思う。

=head1 メソッド

=head2 new(%options);

Creates and initializes a new goban. The options and their legal
values (* marks defaults):

新しい碁盤を作成し初期化する。オプションとその適切な値（*がデフォルト）：

    size       9, 11, 13, 15, 17, *19           # 盤面のサイズ
    game       *go, othello, renju, gomoku      # 競技の種類
    white      任意のテキスト,  *: "Miss White" # 白
    black      任意のテキスト,  *: "Mr Black"   # 黒
    referee    任意のサブルーチン, *: sub {1}   # 審判(どんな手も正当)

The referee subroutine takes a board object and a piece object, and
determines whether or not the move is legal. It also reports if the
game is won.

審判(referee)サブルーチンは盤面オブジェクトと駒オブジェクト[訳注：実際は
盤面の位置を表す2文字]を引数に取り、その手が合法か違法かを判定する。
また、勝敗の報告を行う。

=head2 move

    $ok = $board->move($position)

Takes a move, creates a Games::Goban::Piece object, and attempts to
place it on the board, subject to the constraints of the I<referee>.
If this is not successful, it returns C<0> and sets C<$@> to be an error
message explaining why the move could not be made. If successful,
updates the board, updates the move number and the turn, and returns
true.

一手すすめてGames::Goban::Pieceオブジェクトを生成し、I<referee>サブルーチンの
制約に従って盤面に駒を置こうと試みる。その手が成功しなかったらメソッドはC<0>を
返し、C<$@>になぜ移動できなかったを説明するエラーメッセージをセットする。
手が成功したら盤面を更新し、手数と手番を更新して真値を返す。

[訳注：このメソッドが返すのは白駒か黒駒かを表す文字（'w'か'b'）。]

=head2 get

    $move = $board->get($position)

Gets the C<Games::Goban::Piece> object at the given location, if there
is one. Locations are specified as per SGF - a 19x19 board starts from
C<aa> in the top left corner, with C<tt> in the bottom right. C<i> does
not exist.

指定した位置に駒があればC<Games::Goban::Piece>オブジェクトを得る。
位置はSGF（Smart Game Format）に基づいて指定する。例えば19x19盤は
左上隅がC<aa>で右下がC<tt>。C<i>は存在しない。

[訳注：iは存在していて、19x19の場合、aa〜ssまでのようです…]

=head2 size

    $size = $board->size

Returns the size of the goban.

碁盤のサイズを返す。

=head2 as_sgf

    $sgf = $board->as_sgf;

Returns a representation of the board as an SGF (Smart Game Format) file.

盤面をSGF(Smart Game Format)ファイル形式で返す。

=head2 as_text

    print $board->as_text(coords => 1)

Returns a printable text picture of the board, similar to that printed
by C<gnugo>. Black pieces are represented by C<X>, white pieces by C<O>,
and the latest move is bracketed. I<hoshi> points are in their normal
position for Go, and printed as an C<+>. Coordinates are not printed by
default, but can be enabled as suggested in the synopsis.

プリント可能なように、盤面をテキスト絵にして返す。これはC<gnugo>が印刷する
ものに似ている。黒駒はC<X>、白駒はC<O>で表され、最新の手は括弧が付く。
I<星>は碁に対応した通常の位置にあり、C<+>で表される。デフォルトでは座標は
出力されないが、上の使用方法で示したようにやれば可能だ。

=head2 register

    my $key = $board->register(\&callback);

Register a calllback to be called after every move is made. This is
useful for analysis programs which wish to maintain statistics on the
board state. The C<key> returned from this can be fed to...

全手終了の後に呼び出されるコールバックルーチンを登録する。これは盤面状態の
統計を管理する分析用プログラムを使う際に便利だ。このメソッドが返すC<key>は
次のように利用される…

=head2 notes

    $board->notes($key)->{score} += 5;

C<notes> returns a hash reference which can be used by a callback to
store local state about the board.

C<notes>は盤面の局所的状態を保持するためにコールバックルーチンが利用できる
ハッシュリファレンスを返す。

=head2 hash

    $hash = $board->hash

Provides a unique hash of the board position. If the phrase "positional
superko" means anything to you, you want to use this method. If not,
move along, nothing to see here.

盤面の配置を表す一意なハッシュを返す。"positional superko"というフレーズが
あなたにとって意味があるなら、このメソッドを使いたいだろう。そうでないなら、
ここにみるべきものはない、先に進んで欲しい。

[訳注：super ko については http://home.snafu.de/jasiek/superko.html を参照]

=head1 C<Games::Goban::Piece> メソッド

Here are the methods which can be called on a C<Games::Goban::Piece>
object, representing a piece on the board.

ここでは、盤上の駒を表すC<Games::Goban::Piece>オブジェクトから呼び出す
メソッドについて触れる。


=head1 color

Returns "b" for a black piece and "w" for a white. C<colour> is also
provided for Anglophones.

黒駒なら"b"を、白駒なら"w"を返す。英式発音用にC<colour>も用意されている。

=head1 notes

Similar to the C<notes> method on the board class, this provides a
private area for callbacks to scribble on.

盤面クラスメソッドのC<notes>と同じで、殴り書きするためのコールバックルーチン用
にプライベートなエリアを提供する[訳注：スクラッチパッドの提供]。

=head1 position

Returns the position of this piece, as a two-character string.
Incidentally, try to avoid taking references to C<Piece> objects, since
this stops them being destroyed in a timely fashion. Use a C<position>
and C<get> if you can get away with it, or take a weak reference if
you're worried about the piece going away or being replaced by another
one in that position.

この駒の位置を2文字で返す。ちなみに、C<Piece>オブジェクトへのリファレンスを
とるのは避けたほうがいい。なぜなら、適切なときにオブジェクトが破壊されるのを
妨げるからだ。オブジェクトが欲しいなら、C<position>とC<get>を使うこと。
あるいは駒が去ったり、別の駒に置き換えられるのが心配であるなら、
弱いリファレンス(weak reference)を使うこと。

=head1 move

Returns the move number on which this piece was played.

この駒の手数を返す。

=head1 board

Returns the board object whence this piece came.

この駒がいる盤面オブジェクトを返す。

=head1 参考

Smart Game Format: http://www.red-bean.com/sgf/

C<Games::Go::SGF>

The US Go Association: http://www.usgo.org/

=head1 作者

Simon Cozens, C<simon@cpan.org>

