
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

POE::Pipe::TwoWay - portable two-way pipe creation (works without POE)

POE::Pipe::TwoWay - 移植可能な双方向パイプの生成(POE無しに動作)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my ($a_read, $a_write, $b_read, $b_write) = POE::Pipe::TwoWay->new();
  die "couldn't create a pipe: $!" unless defined $a_read;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

POE::Pipe::TwoWay makes unbuffered two-way pipes or it dies trying.
It can be more frugal with filehandles than two OneWay pipes when
socketpair() is available.

POE::Pipe::TwoWayはバッファのない双方向のパイプを作るか挑戦して死にます。
socketpair()が利用可能なときは2つのOneWayパイプよりもファイルハンドルを
節約することができます。

Pipes are troublesome beasts because the different pipe creation
methods have spotty support from one system to another.  Some systems
have C<pipe()>, others have C<socketfactory()>, and still others have
neither.

異なったパイプ生成メソッドはシステムごとにむらの多いサポートを持ってい
るのでパイプはやっかいな獣です。C<pipe()>を持っているシステムがあり、他
はC<socketfactory()>を持っており、いまだにどちらも持たないものもありま
す。

POE::Pipe::TwoWay tries different ways to make a pipe in the hope that
one of them will succeed on any given platform.  It tries them in
socketpair() -> pipe() -> IO::Socket::INET order.  If socketpair() is
available, the two-way pipe will use half as many filehandles as two
one-way pipes.

POE::Pipe::TwoWayはパイプを作るためにどんな与えられたプラットフォーム上
でもどれか一つが動くことを期待して様々な方法を試します。それらは
socketpair() -> pipe() -> IO::Socket::INETの順番で試されます。もし
socketpair()が利用可能であれば、双方向パイプは2つの片方向パイプを使うの
に比べて半分のファイルハンドルで済むでしょう。

So anyway, the syntax is pretty easy:

とにかく、構文はとても簡単です。

  my ($a_read, $a_write, $b_read, $b_write) = POE::Pipe::TwoWay->new();
  die "couldn't create a pipe: $!" unless defined $a_read;

And now you have an unbuffered pipe with two read/write sides, A and
B.  Writing to C<$a_write> passes data to C<$b_read>, and writing to
C<$b_write> passes data to C<$a_read>.

そしてAとBの2つの読み込み/書き込み側を持ったバッファのないパイプを手に
入れることができます。C<$a_write>への書き込みはC<$b_read>にデータが渡さ
れ、C<$b_write>への書き込みはC<$a_read>にデータが渡されます。

=head1 DEBUGGING

It's possible to force POE::Pipe::TwoWay to use one of its underlying
pipe methods.  This was implemented for exercising each method in
tests, but it's possibly useful for others.

POE::Pipe::TwoWayが内在するパイプメソッドの一つを使うように強制すること
は可能です。それはテストで各メソッドを用いるために実装されましたが、も
しかすると他のことにも役立つかもしれません。

However, forcing TwoWay's pipe method isn't documented because it's
cheezy and likely to change.  Use it at your own risk.

しかし、TwoWayのパイプメソッドの強制は粗末で変更されそうなのでドキュメ
ント化されていません。自己責任で使用してください。

=head1 BUGS

The INET domain socket method may block for up to 1s if it fails.

INETドメインソケットメソッドは失敗したとき最大1秒間ブロックするかもしれ
ません。

=head1 AUTHOR & COPYRIGHT

POE::Pipe::TwoWay is copyright 2000 by Rocco Caputo.  All rights
reserved.  POE::Pipe::TwoWay is free software; you may redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 Translators

井上 謙次 <deq@oct.zaq.ne.jp>
