
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

HTTP::Status - HTTP Status code processing

=end original

HTTP::Status - HTTP ステータスコード処理

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use HTTP::Status;

 if ($rc != RC_OK) {
     print status_message($rc), "\n";
 }

 if (is_success($rc)) { ... }
 if (is_error($rc)) { ... }
 if (is_redirect($rc)) { ... }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

I<HTTP::Status> is a library of routines for defining and
classifying HTTP status codes for libwww-perl.  Status codes are
used to encode the overall outcome of a HTTP response message.  Codes
correspond to those defined in RFC 2616 and RFC 2518.

=end original

I<HTTP::Status> は libwww-perl のための HTTP ステータスコードの定義と
分類分け用の関数のライブラリです。
ステータスコードは HTTP レスポンスメッセージの全体の結果をコードにするために
使われます。
コードは RFC2616 と RFC2518 で定義されたものに対応します。

=head1 CONSTANTS

=begin original

The following constant functions can be used as mnemonic status code
names:

=end original

以下の定数関数が覚えやすいステータスコード名として使われます:

   RC_CONTINUE				(100)
   RC_SWITCHING_PROTOCOLS		(101)
   RC_PROCESSING                        (102)

   RC_OK				(200)
   RC_CREATED				(201)
   RC_ACCEPTED				(202)
   RC_NON_AUTHORITATIVE_INFORMATION	(203)
   RC_NO_CONTENT			(204)
   RC_RESET_CONTENT			(205)
   RC_PARTIAL_CONTENT			(206)
   RC_MULTI_STATUS                      (207)

   RC_MULTIPLE_CHOICES			(300)
   RC_MOVED_PERMANENTLY			(301)
   RC_FOUND				(302)
   RC_SEE_OTHER				(303)
   RC_NOT_MODIFIED			(304)
   RC_USE_PROXY				(305)
   RC_TEMPORARY_REDIRECT		(307)

   RC_BAD_REQUEST			(400)
   RC_UNAUTHORIZED			(401)
   RC_PAYMENT_REQUIRED			(402)
   RC_FORBIDDEN				(403)
   RC_NOT_FOUND				(404)
   RC_METHOD_NOT_ALLOWED		(405)
   RC_NOT_ACCEPTABLE			(406)
   RC_PROXY_AUTHENTICATION_REQUIRED	(407)
   RC_REQUEST_TIMEOUT			(408)
   RC_CONFLICT				(409)
   RC_GONE				(410)
   RC_LENGTH_REQUIRED			(411)
   RC_PRECONDITION_FAILED		(412)
   RC_REQUEST_ENTITY_TOO_LARGE		(413)
   RC_REQUEST_URI_TOO_LARGE		(414)
   RC_UNSUPPORTED_MEDIA_TYPE		(415)
   RC_REQUEST_RANGE_NOT_SATISFIABLE     (416)
   RC_EXPECTATION_FAILED		(417)
   RC_UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY              (422)
   RC_LOCKED                            (423)
   RC_FAILED_DEPENDENCY                 (424)
   RC_NO_CODE                           (425)
   RC_UPGRADE_REQUIRED                  (426)
   RC_RETRY_WITH                        (449)

   RC_INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR		(500)
   RC_NOT_IMPLEMENTED			(501)
   RC_BAD_GATEWAY			(502)
   RC_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE		(503)
   RC_GATEWAY_TIMEOUT			(504)
   RC_HTTP_VERSION_NOT_SUPPORTED	(505)
   RC_VARIANT_ALSO_NEGOTIATES           (506)
   RC_INSUFFICIENT_STORAGE              (507)
   RC_BANDWIDTH_LIMIT_EXCEEDED          (509)
   RC_NOT_EXTENDED                      (510)

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=begin original

The following additional functions are provided.  Most of them are
exported by default.

=end original

以下の追加の関数が提供されます。
ほとんどのものはデフォルトでエクスポートされます。

=over 4

=item status_message( $code )

=begin original

The status_message() function will translate status codes to human
readable strings. The string is the same as found in the constant
names above.  If the $code is unknown, then C<undef> is returned.

=end original

status_message() 関数はステータスコードを人間にも読める文字列に変換します。
その文字列は上記の定数名と同じです。
$code がわからないと、C<undef> が返されます。

=item is_info( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is an I<Informational> status code (1xx).  This
class of status code indicates a provisional response which can't have
any content.

=end original

C<$code> が I<情報的> なステータスコード (1xx) であれば TRUE を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは内容をなにも持つことができない
仮のレスポンスであることを示しています。

=item is_success( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is a I<Successful> status code (2xx).

=end original

C<$code> が I<正常> なステータスコード (2xx) であれば TRUE を返します。

=item is_redirect( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is a I<Redirection> status code (3xx). This class of
status code indicates that further action needs to be taken by the
user agent in order to fulfill the request.

=end original

C<$code> が I<リダイレクト> のステータスコード (3xx) であれば
TRUE を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは、そのリクエストを満足するためには、
ユーザエージェントがさらに動く必要があることを示します。

=item is_error( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is an I<Error> status code (4xx or 5xx).  The function
return TRUE for both client error or a server error status codes.

=end original

C<$code> が I<エラー> のステータスコード (4xx か 5xx) であれば TRUE を返します。
この関数はクライアントエラーとサーバーエラーステータスコードの両方で
TRUE を返します。

=item is_client_error( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is an I<Client Error> status code (4xx). This class
of status code is intended for cases in which the client seems to have
erred.

=end original

C<$code> が I<クライアントエラー> のステータスコード (4xx) であれば
TRUEを返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは、クライアントがエラーになっているように
見える場合を考えています。

=begin original

This function is B<not> exported by default.

=end original

この関数はデフォルトではエクスポートされません。

=item is_server_error( $code )

=begin original

Return TRUE if C<$code> is an I<Server Error> status code (5xx). This class
of status codes is intended for cases in which the server is aware
that it has erred or is incapable of performing the request.

=end original

C<$code> が I<サーバーエラー> のステータスコード (5xx) であれば
TRUE を返します。
ステータスコードのこのクラスは、サーバがそれがエラーなったことあるいは、
そのリクエストを実行できないことに気がついた場合を考えています。

=begin original

This function is B<not> exported by default.

=end original

この関数はデフォルトではエクスポートされません。

=back

=head1 BUGS

=begin original

Wished @EXPORT_OK had been used instead of @EXPORT in the beginning.
Now too much is exported by default.

=end original

始めに @EXPORT の代りに期待された @EXPORT_OK が使われています。
デフォルトであまりにも多くがエクスポートされます。

=begin meta

Translated: Hippo2000 <GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp> (5.48)
Updated: Kentaro SHIRAKATA <argrath@ub32.org> (5.813)

=end meta

