
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::API - API of HTTP::WebTest

HTTP::WebTest::API - HTTP::WebTest の API

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    use HTTP::WebTest;

    my $webtest = new HTTP::WebTest;

    # run test from file
    # ファイルからテストを実行
    $webtest->run_wtscript('script.wt');

    # or (to pass test parameters as method arguments)
    # もしくはメソッドのパラメータからテストパラメータを設定
    $webtest->run_tests($tests);

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This document describes Perl API of C<HTTP::WebTest>.

このドキュメントでは C<HTTP::WebTest> の Perl API について
記述しています.

=head1 METHODS
メソッド

=head2 new ()

Constructor.

コンストラクタ.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A new C<HTTP::WebTest> object.

新しい C<HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクト.

=head2 run_tests ($tests, $optional_params)

Runs a test sequence.

テストシーケンスの実行.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * $test

A reference to an array that contains test objects.

テストオブジェクトを格納した配列へのリファレンス.

=item * $optional_params

A reference to a hash that contains optional global parameters for test.

任意のテストのためのグローバルパラメータを格納したハッシュへのリファレンス.

=back

=head2 run_wtscript ($wtscript, $optional_params)

Reads wtscript and runs tests it defines.

wtscript を読み込みそこで定義されているテストを実行する.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * $wtscript

Either the name of wtscript file or wtscript passed as string. Very
simple heuristic is used distinguish first from second. If
C<$wtscript> contains either C<\n> or C<\r> it is treated as a
wtscript string. Otherwise, it is treated as a file name.

wtscript ファイルの名前もしくはwtscriptそのもの. とても単純な方法で
両指定は識別されます. もし C<$wtscript> が C<\n> もしくは C<\r> を
含んでいればそれは wtscript 文字列として処理されます. そうでなければ
ファイル名として処理されます.

=item * $optional_params

=back

A reference to a hash that contains optional test parameters that can
override parameters defined in wtscript.

wtscript で定義されているパラメータを上書きする任意のテストパラメータを
含んだハッシュへのリファレンス.

=head2 num_fail ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The number of failed tests.

失敗したテストの数.

=head2 num_succeed ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The number of passed tests.

成功したテストの数.

=head2 have_succeed ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

True if all tests have passed, false otherwise.

全てのテストが成功したときに真, そうでなければ偽.

=head2 parser_package($optional_parser_package)

If $optional_parser is defined sets a parser package to use when
parsing wtscript files. Otherwise just returns current parser package.

$optional_parser が定義されていれば wtscript ファイルを解析するときに
使われるパーサパッケージとして設定する.
そうでなければ現在のパーサパッケージを返す.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The parser package.

パーサーパッケージ.

=head2 parse ($data)

Parses test specification in wtscript format.

wtscript フォーマットのテスト記述を解析する.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * $data

Scalar that contains test specification in wtscript format.

wtscript フォーマットのテスト記述を含んだスカラー.

=back

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A list of two elements.  First element is a reference to an array that
contains test objects.  Second element is a reference to a hash that
contains optional global test parameters.

２つの要素を持つリスト. １つ目はテストオブジェクトを格納した配列への
リファレンス. ２つ目は任意のグローバルテストパラメータ含んだハッシュへの
リファレンス.

It can be passed directly to C<run_tests>.

これらの値は直接 C<run_tests> に渡すことができます.

=head3 Example
例

    $webtest->run_tests($webtest->parse($data));

=head1 LOW-LEVEL API METHODS
低レベル API メソッド

Most users don't need to use this part of C<HTTP::WebTest> API
directly.  It could be useful for users who want to:

大抵のユーザはこのセクションの C<HTTP::WebTest> API を
直接使う必要はありません. これらは次のことを行いたいユーザには
便利でしょう:

=over 4

=item *



Write an C<HTTP::WebTest> plugin.

C<HTTP::WebTest> プラグインを書くとき.

=item *



Get access to L<LWP::UserAgent|LWP::UserAgent>,
L<HTTP::WebTest::Request|HTTP::WebTest::Request>,
L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> and
other objects used by C<HTTP::WebTest> during runing test sequence.

L<LWP::UserAgent|LWP::UserAgent>,
L<HTTP::WebTest::Request|HTTP::WebTest::Request>,
L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> 及びテストシーケンスの実行中に
C<HTTP::WebTest> が使うその他のオブジェクト等にアクセスしたいとき.

=back

=head2 tests ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference to an array that contains test objects.

テストオブジェクトを格納する配列へのリファレンス.

=head2 user_agent ($optional_user_agent)

If $optional_user_agent is a user agent object,
it is used by the C<HTTP::WebTest> object for all requests.
If $optional_user_agent is passed as undef, the HTTP::WebTest object is
reset to use the default user agent.

$optional_user_agent がユーザエージェントオブジェクトであれば
C<HTTP::WebTest> の全てのリクエストでそれを使うようになります. 
もし $optional_user_agent に undef を渡されたなら, 
HTTP::WebTest オブジェクトのユーザエージェントはデフォルトのものに
リセットされます.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The user agent object used by the C<HTTP::WebTest> object.

C<HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクトによって使われるユーザエージェントオブジェクト.

=head2 plugins ($optional_plugins)

If C<$optional_plugins> is a reference to an array that contains plugin 
objects, the C<HTTP::WebTest> object uses these plugins while running tests.
If C<$optional_plugins> is passed as
undef, the C<HTTP::WebTest> object is reset to use the default set of plugins.

C<$optional_plugins> にプラグインオブジェクトを格納した配列へのリファレンス
を渡したときは C<HTTP::WebTest> はテストの実行中にそれらのプラグインを使うように
なります. もし C<$optional_plugins> に undef を渡したときはデフォルトの
プラグインセットにリセットされます.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference to an array that contains plugin objects.  If you
add or remove plugin objects in this array, you will change the set of
plugins used by C<HTTP::WebTest> object during tests.

プラグインオブジェクトを格納した配列へのリファレンス. 
もしその配列のプラグインオブジェクトを追加もしくは削除すると
テスト中に C<HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクトが使うプラグインのセットを
変更することになります.

=head2 create_user_agent ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A new L<LWP::UserAgent|LWP::UserAgent> object, initialized with default
settings.

デフォルトの設定で初期化された新しい L<LWP::UserAgent|LWP::UserAgent>
オブジェクト.

=head2 reset_user_agent ()

Resets the user agent to the default.

ユーザエージェントをデフォルトのものにリセットします.

=head2 reset_plugins ()

Resets the set of plugin objects to the default set.

プラグインオブジェクトをデフォルトのものにリセットします.

=head2 default_plugins ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference to the set of default plugin objects.

デフォルトのプラグインオブジェクトのセットへのリファレンス.

=head2 global_test_param ($param)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The value of the global test parameter C<$param>.

グローバルテストパラメータ C<$param> の値.

=head2 current_test_num ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The number of the current test or, if no test is running, the current test run.

現在のテストの番号. もしくは実行中でなければ最後に実行されたテストの番号.

=head2 current_test ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> object which corresponds
to the current test or, if no test is running, the current test run.

現在のテストに対応する L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> 
オブジェクト. もしくは実行中でなければ最後に実行されたテストオブジェクト.

=head2 current_request ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The L<HTTP::WebTest::Request|HTTP::WebTest::Request> object used in current test.

現在のテストで使われている L<HTTP::WebTest::Request|HTTP::WebTest::Request>
オブジェクト.

=head2 current_response ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> object used in current test.

現在のテストで使われている L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> オブジェクト.

=head2 current_response_time ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

The response time for the HTTP request used in current test.

現在のテストでの HTTP リクエストに対するレスポンスタイム.

=head2 current_results ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference to an array that contains the results of checks made by plugins
for the current test.

現在のテストに対するプラグインからのテスト結果を格納している配列への
リファレンス.

=head2 run_test ($test, $optional_params)

Runs a single test.

１つのテストを実行.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * $test

A test object.

テストオブジェクト.

=item * $optional_params

A reference to a hash that contains optional global test parameters.

任意のグローバルテストパラメータを格納しているハッシュへのリファレンス.

=back

=head2 convert_tests (@tests)

Converts test objects C<@tests> of any supported type to internal
canonical representation (i.e. to
L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> objects).

多ポートされているタイプのテストオブジェクト C<@tests> 
を内部の標準表現(つまり L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test>
オブジェクト)に変換する.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A list of L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> objects (list
context) or the first value from a list of
L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> objects (scalar context).

リストコンテキストでは L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> 
オブジェクトのリスト, スカラーコンテキストでは 
L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクトのリストの
先頭の値.

=head1 BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY
下位互換性

C<HTTP::WebTest 2.xx> offers a richer API than its predecessor
C<HTTP::WebTest 1.xx>.  The old API is still supported, but may be 
deprecated in the future and is not recommended.

C<HTTP::WebTest 2.xx> は前任の C<HTTP::WebTest 1.xx> よりも
リッチな API を提供しています. 古い API も今のところサポートされていますが
今後廃止されるでしょう. また, これらの使用は推奨されません.

=head2 web_test ($file, $num_fail_ref, $num_succeed_ref, $optional_options)

Reads wtscript file and runs tests it defines.

wtscript ファイルを読み込みそこで定義されているテストを実行する.

In C<HTTP::WebTest 2.xx> you should use method C<run_wtscript>.

C<HTTP::WebTest 2.xx> では C<run_wtscript> メソッドを使うべきです.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * $file

Name of a wtscript file.

wtscript ファイルの名前.

=item * $num_fail_ref

A reference on scalar where a number of failed tests will be stored or
C<undef> if you don't need it.

失敗したテストの数を格納するスカラーへのリファレンス. 必要なければ undef
を指定できます.

=item * $num_succed_ref

A reference on scalar where a number of passed tests will be stored or
C<undef> if you don't need it.

パス(成功)したテストの数を格納するスカラーへのリファレンス. 必要なければ undef
を指定できます.

=item * $optional_params

A reference to a hash that contains optional test parameters which can
override parameters defined in wtscript.

wtscript で定義されているパラメータを上書きすることができる
任意のテストパラメータを格納したハッシュへのリファレンス.

=back

=head2 run_web_test ($tests, $num_fail_ref, $num_succeed_ref, $optional_options)

This is not a method.  It is subroutine which creates a
C<HTTP::WebTest> object and runs test sequence using it.

これはメソッドではありません. C<HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクトを
生成しそれを使ってテストシーケンスを実行するサブルーティンです.

You need to either import C<run_web_test> into you namespace with

以下の文で C<run_web_test> をインポートするか,

    use HTTP::WebTest qw(run_web_test);

or use the full name C<HTTP::WebTest::run_web_test>

完全な名前 C<HTTP::WebTest::run_web_test> を使う必要があります.

In C<HTTP::WebTest 2.xx> you should use the method C<run_tests>.

C<HTTP::WebTest 2.xx> ではC<run_tests> メソッドを使うべきです.

=head3 Parameters
復帰値

=over 4

=item * $tests

A reference to an array that contains a set of test objects.

テストオブジェクトのセットを格納する配列へのリファレンス.

=item * $num_fail_ref

A reference to a scalar where the number of failed tests will be stored or
C<undef> if you don't need it.

失敗したテストの数を格納するスカラーへのリファレンス. 必要なければ undef
を指定できます.

=item * $num_succed_ref

A reference to a scalar where the number of passed tests will be stored or
C<undef> if you don't need it.

パス(成功)したテストの数を格納するスカラーへのリファレンス. 必要なければ undef
を指定できます.

=item * $optional_params

A reference to a hash that contains optional test parameters.

任意のテストパラメータを格納するハッシュへのリファレンス.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Richard Anderson.  All rights reserved.


Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Request|HTTP::WebTest::Request>


L<LWP::UserAgent|LWP::UserAgent>


L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookies|HTTP::WebTest::Cookies>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Parser|HTTP::WebTest::Parser>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test>


