=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin - Base class for HTTP::WebTest plugins.

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin - HTTP::WebTest プラグインの基底クラス

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

Not applicable.

なし.

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> plugin classes can inherit from this class.
It provides some useful helper methods.

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> プラグインクラスはこのクラスから派生させます. 
ここでは便利なヘルパーメソッドが提供されています.

=head1 METHODS
メソッド

=head2 new ($webtest)

Constructor.

コンストラクタ.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A new plugin object that will be used by
L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> object C<$webtest>.

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクト C<$webtest> によって使用される
新しいプラグインオブジェクト.

=head2 webtest ()

=head3 Returns
復帰値

An L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> object that uses this plugin.

このプラグインを使っている L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクト.

=head2 global_test_param ($param, $optional_default)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

If global test parameter C<$param> is not defined, returns
C<$optional_default> or C<undef> if there is no default.

グローバルテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されていなければ
C<$optional_default>. デフォルト値も渡されていなければ C<undef>.

If the global test parameter C<$param> is defined, returns it's value.

グローバルテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されていればその値.

=head2 test_param ($param, $optional_default)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

If latest test parameter C<$param> is not defined, returns
C<$optional_default> or C<undef> if there is no default.

最新のテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されていなければ
C<$optional_default>. デフォルト値も渡されていなければ C<undef>.

If latest test parameter C<$param> is defined returns it's value.

最新ののテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されていればその値.

=head2 global_yesno_test_param ($param, $optional_default)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

If the global test parameter C<$param> is not defined, returns
C<$optional_default> or false if no default exists.

グローバルテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されていなければ
C<$optional_default>. デフォルト値も渡されていなければ偽.

If the global test parameter C<$param> is defined, returns true if latest
test parameter C<$param> is C<yes>, false otherwise.

グローバルテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されてるのなら, 
最新のテストパラメータ C<$param> が C<yes> であれば真, そうでなければ偽.

=head2 yesno_test_param ($param, $optional_default)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

If latest test parameter C<$param> is not defined returns
C<$optional_default> or false if it is not defined also.

最新のテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されていなければ
C<$optional_default>. デフォルト値も渡されていなければ偽.

If latest test parameter C<$param> is defined returns true if latest
test parameter C<$param> is C<yes>.  False otherwise.

最新のテストパラメータ C<$param> が定義されてるのなら,
最新のテストパラメータ C<$param> が C<yes> であれば真, そうでなければ偽.

=head2 test_result ($ok, $comment)

Factory method that creates test result object.

テスト結果オブジェクトを作るファクトリメソッド.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> object.

L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> オブジェクト.

=head2 validate_params (@params)

Checks test parameters in C<@params>.  Throws exception if any
of them are invalid.

C<@params> の中のテストパラメータを調べます. もし不正なものがあれば
例外をなげます.

=head2 global_validate_params (@params)

Checks global test parameters in C<@params>.  Throws exception
if any of them are invalid.

C<@params> の中のグローバルテストパラメータを調べます. もし不正なものがあれば
例外をなげます.

=head2 validate_value($param, $value, $type)

Checks if C<$value> of test parameter C<$param> has type <$type>.

テストパラメータ C<$param> の C<$value> がタイプ <$type> を持っているか
を調べます.

=head3 Exceptions
例外

Dies if check is not successful.

チェックが成功しなければ die します.

=head2 param_types ()

This method should be redefined in the subclasses.  Returns information
about test parameters that are supported by plugin.  Used to validate
tests.

このメソッドはサブクラスで再定義されるべきです. 
プラグインがサポートするテストパラメータに関する情報を返します. 
テストの検証に使われます.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A string that looks like:

次のような文字列です:

    'param1 type1
     param2 type2
     param3 type3(optional,args)
     param4 type4'

=head2 check_anything ($value)

Method that checks whether test parameter value is of C<anything>
type.

テストパラメータの値が C<anything> タイプであることをチェックする
メソッドです.

This is NOOP operation.  It always succeed.

これは何もしません. 常に成功します.

=head2 check_list ($param, $value, @optional_spec)

Method that checks whether test parameter value is of C<list>
type.  That is it is a reference on an array.

テストパラメータの値が  C<list> タイプ から成ることをチェックします. 
つまり配列のリファレンスであることをチェックします.

Optional list C<@optional_spec> can define specification on allowed
elements of list.  It can be either

任意のリスト C<@optional_spec> はリストに許可される要素を定義します. 
次のいずれかの形式で指定します:

    ('TYPE_1', 'TYPE_2', ..., 'TYPE_N')

or

もしくは

    ('TYPE_1', 'TYPE_2', ..., 'TYPE_M', '...')

First specification requires list value of test parameter to contain
C<N> elements.  First element of list should be of should C<TYPE_1>
type, second element of list should of C<TYPE_2> type, ..., N-th
element of list should be of C<TYPE_N> type.

１つめの指定ではテストパラメータが C<N> 個の要素を持っているリストで
あることを要求します. リストの最初の要素は C<TYPE_1> タイプであり, 
リストの２つ目の要素は C<TYPE_2> であり, ..., リストの N 番目の要素は
C<TYPE_N> タイプであるべきです.

Second specification requires list value of test parameter to contain
at least C<N> elements.  First element of list should be of should
C<TYPE_1> type, second element of list should of C<TYPE_2> type, ...,
M-th element of list should be of C<TYPE_M> type, all following
elements should be of C<TYPE_M> type.

２つめの指定ではテストパラメータが少なくとも C<M> 個の要素を持っている
リストであることを要求します. リストの最初の要素は C<TYPE_1> タイプであり, 
リストの２つ目の要素は C<TYPE_2> であり, ..., リストの M 番目の要素は
C<TYPE_M> タイプであるべきです. そしてそれ以降の要素は C<TYPE_M> で
あるべきです.

=head3 Exceptions
例外

Dies if checks is not successful.

チェックが成功しなければ die します.

=head2 check_scalar ($param, $value, $optional_regexp)

Method that checks whether test parameter value is of C<scalar>
type (that is it is usual Perl scalar and is not a reference).

テストパラメータが C<scalar> タイプ(通常の Perl のスカラーであり, 
リファレンスは含みません)であることをチェックします.

If C<$optional_regexp> is specified also checks value of parameter
using this regual expression.

C<$optional_regexp> が指定されたのならパラメータの値をこの正規表現でも
チェックします.

=head3 Exceptions
例外

Dies if check is not successful.

チェックが成功しなければ die します.

=head2 check_stringref ($param, $value)

Method that checks whether test parameter value is of C<stringref>
type (that is it is a reference on scalar).

テストパラメータの値が C<stringref> タイプ(スカラーへのリファレンス)
であることをチェックします.

=head3 Exceptions
例外

Dies if check is not successful.

チェックが成功しなければ die します.

=head2 check_uri ($param, $value)

Method that checks whether test parameter value is of C<uri>
type (that is it either scalar or L<URI|URI> object).

テストパラメータの値が C<uri> タイプ (スカラーもしくは L<URI|URI> 
オブジェクト)であることをチェックします.

=head3 Exceptions
例外

Dies if check is not successful.

チェックが成功しなければ die します.

=head2 check_hashlist ($param, $value)

Method that checks whether test parameter value is of C<hashlist>
type (that is it is either a hash reference or an array reference
that points to array containing even number of elements).

テストパラメータの値が C<hashlist> タイプ(ハッシュのリファレンス
もしくは偶数個の要素をもつ配列へのリファレンス)であることをチェックします.

=head3 Exceptions
例外

Dies if check is not successful.

チェックが成功しなければ die します.

=head2 check_yesno ($param, $value)

Same as

以下の分と等値です:

    check_scalar($param, $value, '^(?:yes|no)$');

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


L<HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin|HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin>


