
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Plugins - Plugin developers documentation.

HTTP::WebTest::Plugins - Plugin 開発者向けドキュメント

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

Not applicable.

なし.

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This document is the starting point for developers who wish to extend
L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> functionality with external plugins.

このドキュメントは L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> を外部プラグインを
つかって拡張しようとする開発者のスタート地点です.

=head1 ABOUT PLUGINS
プラグインについて

Plugin can be used to add new test types and add new report
types.  A plugin is just a Perl package that defines class with a number
of methods which if present are called by
L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> at various stages of test.

プラグインは新しいテストタイプやレポートタイプを追加することができます. 
プラグインはテストの様々な局面で L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> から
呼び出されるいくつかのメソッドをクラスとして定義している Perl パッケージ
にすぎません.

Each plugin package should subclass
L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>.  Report plugins can
subclass L<HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin|HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin>
which is a subclass of L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>.
L<HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin|HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin> defines
some helper methods useful in report plugins and handles some test
parameters common for report plugins.

各プラグインパッケージは L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin> 
のサブクラスであるべきです. レポートプラグインは
L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin> のサブクラスである
L<HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin|HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin> のサブクラス
でもよいです. L<HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin|HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin> 
ではレポートプラグインに役立ついくつかのヘルパーメソッドや
レポートプラグインが共通して行うテストパラメータの操作を定義しています.

=head1 REQUIRED METHODS
必要なメソッド

Each plugin package must provide following method:

各プラグインパッケージは以下のメソッドを提供しなければなりません:

=head2 param_types

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A string that contains information about supported test parameters and
their types.

サポートするテストパラメータとその型に関する情報を記述した文字列.

String has following format:

文字列には以下の書式で記述します:

    PARAM1 TYPE1 PARAM2 TYPE2 PARAM3 TYPE3 ... PARAMN TYPEN

PARAM is the name of a test parameter and TYPE is it's type
specification.  They should be separated by a whitespace character.

PARAM がテストパラメータの名前, TYPE がタイプの指定です. 
白空白文字で区切ってください.

Each test parameter type is defined by a method in
L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>.  Type C<foobar> is
defined as method C<check_foobar> in this package.  See its
documentation for list of all C<check_****> methods - these methods
define all known test types.

各テストパラメータタイプは L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin> 
のメソッドとして定義されています. タイプ C<foobar> は メソッド
C<check_foobar> として定義されています. 全ての C<check_****> メソッドの
一覧はそのドキュメント(訳注:おそらく 
L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>のこと)を参照してください.
この名前のメソッドはすべて既知のテストタイプとして定義されています.

=head3 Example
例

    sub param_types {
        return q(ignore_case   yesno
                 text_forbid   list
                 text_require  list
                 regex_forbid  list
                 regex_require list);
    }

This is from
L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::TextMatchTest|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::TextMatchTest>.
It defines the test parameters C<ignore_case>, C<text_forbid>,
C<text_require>, C<regex_forbid> and C<regex_require>.  C<yesno> and
C<list> are test parameter types.

これは
L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::TextMatchTest|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::TextMatchTest>.
にあるものです. ここではテストパラメータ C<ignore_case>, C<text_forbid>,
C<text_require>, C<regex_forbid>, そして C<regex_require> を定義しています. 
C<yesno> 及び C<list> はテストパラメータタイプです.

=head1 OPTIONAL METHODS
任意のメソッド

Each plugin package may provide following methods:

各プラグインパッケージでは以下のメソッド提供することもできます:

=head2 start_tests ()

Called before runing test sequence.  Initializations can be done
in this method.  Report plugins can use this hook to create the report header.

テストシーケンスを実行する前に呼び出されます. このメソッドで
初期化を行うことができます. レポートプラグインではこのメソッドで
レポートのヘッダを作ることができます.

=head2 end_tests ()

Called when test sequence is finished.  Clean-up and finalization can be
done in this method.  Report plugins can use this hook to finish
the report.

テストシーケンスが終了するときに呼び出されます. このメソッドで
クリーンアップや終了処理を行うことができます. レポートプラグインでは
このメソッドでレポートを終了させることができます.

=head2 prepare_request ()

Called just before L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> submits the HTTP
request.  Various properties of request can be set here.

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> が HTTP リクエストを送信する直前に
呼び出されます. リクエストに対する様々な属性をここで設定することができます.

=head2 check_response ()

Called after L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> gets the
HTTP response.  Web page tests should be placed here.

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> が HTTP レスポンスを受け取った後に
呼び出されます. ウェブページをここでテストします.

=head2 report_test ()

Called after all L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> 
<check_response> hooks are called.  Normally used by report plugins to generate
report about test just done.

全ての L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> <check_response> フックを呼び終えた
後に呼び出されます. 通常レポートプラグインが今終わったテストに関するレポートを
生成するために使います.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

These methods should return results of tests made in the following
form:

これらのメソッドではテストの結果を以下の形式で返すべきです:

    [ [ TEST_GROUP1_NAME, TEST_RESULT1, TEST_RESULT2, ... ],
      [ TEST_GROUP2_NAME, TEST_RESULT1, TEST_RESULT2, ... ],
      ...
    ];

C<TEST_GROUP_NAME> is a string that describes a group of web tests
and their results.  It is used during the generation of the test report.

C<TEST_GROUP_NAME> はウェブテスト及びその結果のグループについて
説明する文字列です. テストレポートの生成に使われます.

C<TEST_RESULT> is an
L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> object.

C<TEST_RESULT> は L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> 
オブジェクトです.

=head1 EXAMPLES
例

Some examples of plugins are:

プラグインの例を挙げてみます:

=over 4

=item L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::Cookies|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::Cookies>

Plugin that uses both C<prepare_request> and C<check_response> hooks.

C<prepare_request> 及び C<check_response> の２つのフックを使っています.

=item L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::StatusTest|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::StatusTest>

Simple plugin that defines only the C<check_response> hook.

C<check_response> フックのみを定義している簡単なプラグイン.

=item L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::DefaultReport|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::DefaultReport>

Example of a report plugin.  Uses C<start_tests>, C<report_test> and
C<end_tests> hooks.

レポートプラグインです. C<start_tests>, C<report_test>, そして
C<end_tests> フックを使っています.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>


L<HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin|HTTP::WebTest::ReportPlugin>


