=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Request - HTTP request objects

HTTP::WebTest::Request - HTTP リクエストオブジェクト

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    use HTTP::WebTest::Request;
    $request = HTTP::WebTest::Request->new;

    my $uri = $request->uri;

    $request->base_uri($base_uri);
    my $base_uri = $request->base_uri;

    my @params = @{$request->params};
    $request->params([@params]);

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This class is a subclass of L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> class.  It
extends it with continence methods that allow to set or get CGI query
params for HTTP request in uniform way independent of HTTP request
method.

このクラスは L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> クラスのサブクラスです. 
HTTP リクエストメソッドから独立した統一した方法での
HTTP リクエストの CGI パラメータの設定もしくは取得を許可する
自制的なメソッドを拡張しています.

Each URI in GET requests may consist of two portions: URI of
document/resource/etc and CGI query string.  In
L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> method C<uri> doesn't separate them and
operates on them as on single entity. In C<HTTP::WebTest::Request>
method C<uri> is not allowed to modify HTTP request URI.  Instead of
it methods C<base_uri> and C<params> should be used to change or get
these parts independently.

GET リクエストの URI は２つの部分, ドキュメント/リソース等の URI 及び
CGI クエリ文字列からなります. L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> の
C<uri> メソッドではこれらが分離されておらず１つのエンティティとして
処理されてしまいます. C<HTTP::WebTest::Request> の C<uri> メソッド
では HTTP リクエスト URI の変更を許していません. その代わりに
C<base_uri> 及び C<params> メソッドで個々の部分を独立して変更もしくは
取得します.

For POST requests method C<base_uri> acts simular to C<uri>.  On the
other hand C<params> set content of HTTP request in case of POST
requests.

POST リクエストでは C<base_uri> は C<uri> とよく似ています. 
言い換えると POST リクエストでは C<params> が HTTP リクエストの
本体を設定します.

CGI request parameters are defined in the way similar to CGI request
parameters defenition in
L<HTTP::Request::Common|HTTP::Request::Common>.  It is an array of
pairs

CGI リクエストのパラメータは L<HTTP::Request::Common|HTTP::Request::Common> 
で定義される CGI リクエストパラメータの定義とよく似た方法で定義されます. 
ペアの配列を用いる方法です.

    ( name1 => value1, name2 => value2, ..., nameN => valueN )

If any value is passed as an array reference it is treated as file
upload.  See L<HTTP::Request::Common|HTTP::Request::Common> for more
details.

もし値が配列へのリファレンスとして渡されると
ファイルのアップロードとして処理されます. 詳細は
L<HTTP::Request::Common|HTTP::Request::Common> を参照してください.

By default GET type of HTTP request is assumed.  But if CGI request
parameters have data for file upload then POST type of HTTP request is
assumed.

デフォルトでは HTTP リクエストに GET が使われます. しかしもし
CGI リクエストパラメータにファイルアップロードがあると POST が使われます.

=head1 CLASS METHODS
クラスメソッド

=head2 base_uri($optional_uri)

Can set non CGI query portion of request URI if C<$optional_uri> is
passed.

C<$optional_uri> が渡されると リクエスト URI の CGI クエリ部分でない
箇所を設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

Non CGI query portion of request URI.

リクエスト URI の CGI クエリ部分でない箇所.

=head2 uri($optional_uri)

Method C<uri> is redefined. It is same as C<base_uri> for non-GET
request. For GET requests it returns URI with query parameters.

C<uri> メソッドは再定義されています. これは GET でないリクエストに対しては
C<base_uri> と同じです. GET リクエストであればクエリパラメータを含んだ
URI を返します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

Whole URI.

完全な URI.

=head2 content_ref

Method C<content_ref> is redefined. For POST requests it returns POST
query content corresponding to query parameters.

C<content_ref> メソッドは再定義されています. POST リクエストであれば
クエリパラメータに対応するクエリ本体を返します.

=head2 params($optional_params)

Can set CGI request parameters for this HTTP request object if an
array reference C<$optional_params> is passed.

配列リファレンス C<$optional_params> が渡されると HTTP リクエスト
オブジェクトの CGI リクエストパラメータを設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

An reference to an array that contains CGI request parameters.

CGI リクエストパラメータを含んだ配列へのリファレンス.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request>


L<HTTP::Request::Common|HTTP::Request::Common>


