=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::SelfTest - Helper package for HTTP::WebTest test suite

HTTP::WebTest::SelfTest - HTTP::WebTest テストスイート用のヘルパーパッケージ

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    use HTTP::WebTest::SelfTest;

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This module provides helper routines used by L<HTTP::WebTest> self
test suite. Plugin writers may find this module useful for
implementation of test suites for their plugins.

このモジュールでは L<HTTP::WebTest> 自身のテストスイートで使われる
ヘルパーメソッドを提供します. プラグインの制作者は作っているプラグインの
テストスイートの実装に役立つものが見付かるかもしれません.

=head1 GLOBAL VARIABLES
グローバル変数

This module imports in namespace of test script following global
variables.

このモジュールは以下のグローバル変数をテストスクリプトの名前空間に
インポートします.

=head2 $HOSTNAME

The hostname of the test webserver.

テストウェブサーバのホスト名.

=head2 $PORT

The port of the test webserver.

テストウェブサーバのポート.

=head2 $URL

The URL of the test webserer.

テストウェブサーバの URL.

=head1 SUBROUTINES
サブルーティン

This module imports in namespace of test script following helper
subroutines.

このモジュールは以下のヘルパ関数をテストスクリプトの名前空間に
インポートします.

=head2 abs_url($base, $rel)

=head3 Return
復帰値

Returns absolute URL based on pair of base and relative URLs.

ベース及び相対 URL のペアからなる絶対 URL を返します.

=head2 read_file($filename, $ignore_errors)

Reads a file.

ファイルを読み込みます.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item $filename

Name of the file.

ファイルの名前.

=item $ignore_errors

(Optional) If true then open file errors are ignored, otherwise they
raise an exception. If omit defaults to true.

(任意) 死んであればファイルを開くときのエラーは無視されます. 
そうでなければ例外を発生させます. 省略時は真です.

=back

=head3 Returns
復帰値

Whole content of the file as a string.

ファイルの中身全体を文字列として返します.

=head2 write_file($filename, $data)

Writes into a file.

ファイルに書き込み.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item $filename

Name of the file.

ファイル名.

=item $data

Data to write into the file.

ファイルに書き込むデータ.

=back

=head2 check_webtest(%params)

Runs a test sequence and compares output with a reference file.

テストシーケンスを実行してその出力をリファレンスファイルと比較します.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item webtest => $webtest

L<HTTP::WebTest> object to be used for running the test sequence.

テストシーケンスの実行に使う L<HTTP::WebTest> オブジェクト.

=item tests => $tests

The test sequence.

テストシーケンス.

=item tests => $opts

The global parameters for the test sequence.

テストシーケンスのためのグローバルパラメータ. 
(訳注: 原文では C<tests => $opts> となっていたが恐らく誤り.)

=item out_filter => $out_filter

=back

=head2 generate_testfile(%params)

Generates test file from template file. I.e. it replaces substring
'<<SERVER_URL>>' with value of named parameter C<server_url>.

テンプレートファイルからテストファイルを生成. 
部分文字列 '<<SERVER_URL>>' は名前付きパラメータ C<server_url> の値で
置き換えられます.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item file => $file

Filename of test file. Template file is expected to be in file named
"$file.in".

テストファイルのファイル名.  テンプレートファイルは "$file.in" の名前を
もつ必要があります.

=item server_url => $server_url

Test webserver URL.

テストサーバの URL.

=back

=head2 canonical_output(%params)

Some substrings in test output are unique for each test run. This
subroutine "fixes" test output so it becomes repeatable (unless tests
get broken).

テストの出力中のいくつかの部分文字列を各テストの実行毎にユニークな
ものに置き換えます. この関数ではテストの出力を"修正"するため(テストが
壊れていない限りは)繰り返し可能です.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item output_ref => $output_ref

A reference on scalar which contains test output as whole string.

テストの結果を文字列全体として格納するスカラーへのリファレンス.

=item out_filter => $out_filter

An optional reference on subroutine which can be used as additional
filter. It gets passed test output as its first parameter.

追加フィルタとして使われる関数へのリファレンス. 任意. １番目の引数に
テストの出力が渡されます.

=item server_url => $server_url

Test webserver URL. Normally it is unique for each test run so it gets
replaced with C<http://http.web.test/>.

ウェブサーバ URL をテストします. 通常これは各テストの実行毎にユニーク
であるため C<http://http.web.test/> で置き換えられます.

=item server_hostname => $server_hostname

Test webserver URL. Normally it is unique for each machine where test
is run so it gets replaced with C<http.web.test>.

ウェブサーバ URL をテストします. 通常これは各マシン毎にユニーク
であるため C<http.web.test> で置き換えられます.

=back

=head2 compare_output(%params)

Tests if a test output matches content of specified reference file. If
environment variable C<TEST_FIX> is set then the test is always
succeed and the content of the reference file is overwritten with
current test output.

テスト出力が指定されたリファレンスファイルの内容と一致するかテストします. 
もし環境変数 C<TEST_FIX> が設定されていればテストは常に成功し, 
リファレンスファイルの内容をテスト結果で上書きします.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item output_ref => $output_ref

A reference on scalar which contains test output as whole string.

テストの結果を文字列全体として格納するスカラーへのリファレンス.

=item check_file => $check_file

Filename of the reference file.

リファレンスファイルのファイル名.

=back

=head2 parse_basic_credentials($credentials)

Decodes credentials for Basic authorization scheme according RFC2617.

RFC 2617 に対応するベーシック認証スキーマのデコードを行います.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

Returns user/password pair.

ユーザ/パスワードのペア.

=head1 DEPRECATED SUBROUTINES
廃止された関数

This module imports in namespace of test script following helper
subroutines but they are deprecated and may be removed in the future
from this module.

このモジュールは以下のヘルパ関数もテストスクリプトの名前空間に
インポートしますがこれらは廃止されています. 今後削除されるでしょう.

=head2 start_webserver

This subroutine was moved into
L<HTTP::WebTest::Utils|HTTP::WebTest::Utils> but for backward
compatibility purposes can be exported from this module.

この関数は L<HTTP::WebTest::Utils|HTTP::WebTest::Utils> に
移動されました. 下位互換のためにこのモジュールからエクスポートされています.

=head2 stop_webserver

This subroutine was moved into
L<HTTP::WebTest::Utils|HTTP::WebTest::Utils> but for backward
compatibility purposes can be exported from this module.

この関数は L<HTTP::WebTest::Utils|HTTP::WebTest::Utils> に
移動されました. 下位互換のためにこのモジュールからエクスポートされています.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


