
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::TestResult - Test results class

HTTP::WebTest::TestResult - テスト結果クラス

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    use HTTP::WebTest::TestResult;

    my $result = HTTP::WebTest::TestResult;

    my $bool = $result->ok;
    $result->ok($bool);
    my $comment = $result->comment;
    $result->comment($comment);

    if($result) { ... }

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

Objects of this class represent test results.  Test results are
basicly C<ok>/C<not ok> and some attached commentary.

このクラスのオブジェクトはテスト結果を表現します. テスト結果は
基本的な C<ok>/C<not ok> と, 追加のコメントを持っています.

This class overloads C<bool> operation so it can be directly used in
statements that require boolean values.

このクラスは C<bool> 操作をオーバーロードしています. その為
真偽値が必要な箇所で直接使うことができます.

    if($result) { ... }

is equivalent to

これは次の式と等値です.

    if($result->ok) { ... }

=head1 CLASS METHODS
クラスメソッド

=head2 new ()

Constructor

コンストラクタ

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A new C<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> object.

新しい C<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> オブジェクト.

=head2 ok ($optional_ok)

If C<$optional_ok> is passed,
Defines whether or not test is successful.

もし C<$optional_ok> が渡されたのならテストが成功したかどうかを
定義します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

True if test is successful.  False otherwise.

テストが成功だったのなら真を, そうでなければ偽を返します.

=head2 comment ($optional_comment)

If C<$optional_comment> is passed, sets test result comment.

C<$optional_comment> が渡されればテスト結果のコメントを設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A test result comment.

テスト結果のコメント.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Test|HTTP::WebTest::Test>


