
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Test - Test object class

HTTP::WebTest::Test - テストオブジェクトクラス

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    use HTTP::WebTest::Test;

    my $test = HTTP::WebTest::Test->new(%params);
    my $test = HTTP::WebTest::Test->convert($raw_test);

    my $value = $test->param($param);
    my $value = $test->params->{$param};

    my $results = $test->results;
    my $result = $test->result->[0];
    $test->result->[0] = $result;
    $test->results([ @results ]);

    my $request = $test->request;
    $test->request($request);
    my $response = $test->response;
    $test->response($response);
    my $response_time = $test->response_time;
    $test->response_time($response_time);

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

Objects of this class represent tests.  They store both test parameters and
test results.

このクラスのオブジェクトではテストを表現します. これらはテストパラメータと
テスト結果の両方を格納します.

=head1 CLASS METHODS
クラスメソッド

=head2 new (%params)

Constructor.

コンストラクタ.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * %params

A hash with test parameters.

テストパラメータとなるハッシュ.

=back

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A new C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object.

新しい C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクト.

=head2 params

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference to a hash with all test parameters.

全てのテストパラメータを格納するハッシュへのリファレンス.

=head2 param ($param)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A value of test parameter named C<$param>.

C<$param> の名前を持つテストパラメータの値.

=head2 results ($optional_results)

Can set L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> objects
for this C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object if an array reference
C<$optional_results> is passed.

もし配列リファレンス C<$optional_results> が渡されるとこの
C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクト用の
L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> を設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference to an array that contains
L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> objects.

L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult> オブジェクトの
を格納する配列へのリファレンス.

=head2 request ($optional_request)

If parameter C<$optional_request> is passed,
set L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> object for this
C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object.

パラメータ C<$optional_request> が渡されるとこの C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> 
オブジェクト用の L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> オブジェクトを設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> object.

L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request> オブジェクト.

=head2 response ($optional_response)

If parameter C<$optional_response> is passed,
set L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> object for this
C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object.

パラメータ C<$optional_response> が渡されるとこの C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> 
オブジェクト用の L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> オブジェクトを
設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> object.

L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response> オブジェクト.

=head2 response_time ($optional_response_time)

If parameter C<$optional_response_time> is passed,
set response time for this C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object.

パラメータ C<$optional_response_time> が渡されるとこの 
C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクト用のレスポンスタイムを設定します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A response time.

レスポンスタイム.

=head2 convert ($test)

Tries to convert test definition in some form into
C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object.  Currenlty supports test defintion in
form of C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object (it is just passed through) or in
the form of hash reference:

ある形式で定義されたテストを C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクトに
変換を試みます. 現在のところは C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクトの
形式もしくは以下のようなハッシュリファレンスの形式のテスト定義を
サポートしています:

    { test_param1 => test_value1, test_param2 => test_value2 }

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A new C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> object.

新しい C<HTTP::WebTest::Test> オブジェクト.

=head2 reset ()

Resets test object

テストオブジェクトをリセットします.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::TestResult|HTTP::WebTest::TestResult>


L<HTTP::Request|HTTP::Request>


L<HTTP::Response|HTTP::Response>


