=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Utils - Miscellaneous subroutines used by HTTP::WebTest

HTTP::WebTest::Utils - HTTP::WebTest で使う様々な関数群

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    use HTTP::WebTest::Utils;

    *method = make_access_method($field);
    *method = make_access_method($field, $default_value);
    *method = make_access_method($field, sub { ... });

    find_port(hostname => $hostname);
    my $pid = start_webserver(port => $port, server_sub => sub { ... });
    stop_webserver($pid);

    copy_dir($src_dir, $dst_dir);

    load_package($package);

    my $ret = eval_in_playground($code);
    die $@ if $@;

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This packages contains utility subroutines used by
L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>.  All of them can be exported but none
of them is exported by default.

このパッケージには L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> が使うユーティリティ関数
が含まれています. 全ての関数はエクスポート可能ですがデフォルトでは
何もエクスポートされません.

=head1 SUBROUTINES

=head2 make_access_method($field, $optional_default_value)

Creates anonymous subroutine which can be used as accessor
method.  Method can be used with objects that are blessed hashes.

アクセサメソッドとして使える無名関数を生成します. 
メソッドはハッシュをブレスしたオブジェクトに対して使用できます.

Typical usage is

典型的な使い方は以下の通りです:

    *method = make_access_method($field, ...);

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item * $field

A hash field used for created accessor method.

アクセサメソッドを作るときに使うハッシュのフィールド名.

=item * $optional_default_value

If C<$optional_default_value> is a code reference, uses values returned
by its execution as default for created accessor method.  Otherwise,
uses C<$optional_default_value> as name of method which returns
default value for created accessor method.

C<$optional_default_value> がコードリファレンスであれば, 
アクセサメソッドを作るときにそれを実行した結果の値をデフォルト値として
使います. そうでなければデフォルト値を返すメソッドの名前として
C<$optional_default_value> を使います.

=back

=head3 Returns
復帰値

=head2 find_port (hostname => $hostname)

=head3 Returns
復帰値

Free port number for network interface specified by C<$hostname>.

C<$hostname> で指定されたネットワークインターフェースカードで
空いているポート番号.

=head2 start_webserver(%params)

Starts separate process with a test webserver.

別プロセスでテストウェブサーバを起動します.

=head3 Parameters
パラメータ

=over 4

=item port => $port

A port number where the test webserver listens for incoming connections.

コネクションを受け付けるためにテストウェブサーバがlistenするポート番号.

=item server_sub => $server_sub

A reference on a subroutine to handle requests. It get passed two
named parameters: C<connect> and C<request>.

リクエストを処理する関数へのリファレンス. 関数には２つの名前付きパラメータ
C<connect> 及び C<request> が渡されます.

=back

=head2 stop_webserver($pid)

Kills a test webserver specified by its PID.

指定された PID を持つテストウェブサーバを kill します.

=head2 copy_dir ($src_dir, $dst_dir)

Copies directiory recursively.

ディレクトリを再帰的にコピーします.

=head2 load_package ($package)

Loads package unless it is already loaded.

まだロードされていなければそのパッケージをロードします.

=head2 eval_in_playground ($code)

Evaluates perl code inside playground package.

playground パッケージの中で perl コードを評価します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A return value of evaluated code.

評価したコードの復帰値.

=head2 make_sub_in_playground ($code)

Create anonymous subroutine inside playground package.

playground パッケージの中で無名関数を生成します.

=head3 Returns
復帰値

A reference on anonymous subroutine.

無名関数へのリファレンス.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトウェアです. 
このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


