
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

URI::ldap - LDAP Uniform Resource Locators

=end original

URI::ldap - LDAP 統一資源位置指定子（Uniform Resource Locators ）

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use URI;

  $uri = URI->new("ldap:$uri_string");
  $dn     = $uri->dn;
  $filter = $uri->filter;
  @attr   = $uri->attributes;
  $scope  = $uri->scope;
  %extn   = $uri->extensions;
  
  $uri = URI->new("ldap:");  # start empty
  $uri->host("ldap.itd.umich.edu");
  $uri->dn("o=University of Michigan,c=US");
  $uri->attributes(qw(postalAddress));
  $uri->scope('sub');
  $uri->filter('(cn=Babs Jensen)');
  print $uri->as_string,"\n";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

C<URI::ldap> provides an interface to parse an LDAP URI into its
constituent parts and also to build a URI as described in
RFC 2255.

=end original

C<URI::ldap> は RFC 2255 で記述されているように、その構成要素部分での
LDAP URI を解析したり、URI を組みたてるインターフェースを提供します。

=head1 METHODS

=begin original

C<URI::ldap> supports all the generic and server methods defined by
L<URI>, plus the following.

=end original

C<URI::ldap> は L<URI> で定義されるすべての汎用とサーバメソッドを
サポートし、さらに以下のものをサポートします。

=begin original

Each of the following methods can be used to set or get the value in
the URI. The values are passed in unescaped form.  None of these
return undefined values, but elements without a default can be empty.
If arguments are given, then a new value is set for the given part
of the URI.

=end original

以下のメソッドそれぞれは URI での値を設定あるいは取得するために使えます。
値はエスケープされない形式で渡されます。
これら全てはは未定義値を返しませんが、デフォルトがない要素は
空になるかもしれないことに注意してください。
引数が与えられると、新しい値は URI の与えられた部分に設定されます。

=over 4

=item $uri->dn( [$new_dn] )

=begin original

Sets or gets the I<Distinguished Name> part of the URI.  The DN
identifies the base object of the LDAP search.

=end original

URI の I<Distinguised Name> 部分を設定あるいは取得します。
DN は LDAP 検索のベースオブジェクトを識別します。

=item $uri->attributes( [@new_attrs] )

=begin original

Sets or gets the list of attribute names which are
returned by the search.

=end original

検索によって返される属性名のリストを設定あるいは取得します。

=item $uri->scope( [$new_scope] )

=begin original

Sets or gets the scope to be used by the search. The value can be one of
C<"base">, C<"one"> or C<"sub">. If none is given in the URI then the
return value defaults to C<"base">.

=end original

検索が使うスコープ (scope) を設定あるいは取得します。
値は C<"base">, C<"one">, C<"sub"> のいずれかを指定できます。
URI に何も与えられなければ、デフォルトの C<"base"> になります。

=item $uri->_scope( [$new_scope] )

=begin original

Same as scope(), but does not default to anything.

=end original

scope() と同様ですが、デフォルトでは何もしません。

=item $uri->filter( [$new_filter] )

=begin original

Sets or gets the filter to be used by the search. If none is given in
the URI then the return value defaults to C<"(objectClass=*)">.

=end original

検索が使用するフィルター(filter)を設定あるいは取得します。
URI に何も与えられなければデフォルトの C<"(objectClass=*)"> になります。

=item $uri->_filter( [$new_filter] )

=begin original

Same as filter(), but does not default to anything.

=end original

filter() と同様ですが、デフォルトでは何もしません。

=item $uri->extensions( [$etype => $evalue,...] )

=begin original

Sets or gets the extensions used for the search. The list passed should
be in the form etype1 => evalue1, etype2 => evalue2,... This is also
the form of list that is returned.

=end original

検索に使われる拡張子(extension)を設定あるいは取得します。
渡されるリストは etype1 => evalue1, etype2 => evalue2,... という
形式でなければなりません。
これは返されるリストの形式でもあります。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<RFC-2255|http://www.cis.ohio-state.edu/htbin/rfc/rfc2255.html>

=head1 AUTHOR

Graham Barr E<lt>F<gbarr@pobox.com>E<gt>

Slightly modified by Gisle Aas to fit into the URI distribution.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 1998 Graham Barr. All rights reserved. This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as Perl itself.

=begin meta

Translate: Hippo2000 <GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp> (1.04)
Update: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org> (1.35)
Status: completed

=end meta

=cut

