=head1 名前

  Net::Server::Proto::UNIX - adp0 - Net::Server UNIX protocol.

  Net::Server::Proto::UNIX - adp0 - Net::Server UNIXプロトコル

=head1 概要

See L<Net::Server::Proto>.

L<Net::Server::Proto>を参照。

=head1 説明

Protocol module for Net::Server.  This module implements the
SOCK_DGRAM and SOCK_STREAM socket types under UNIX.
See L<Net::Server::Proto>.

Net::Server用のプロトコルモジュール。このモジュールは
UNIXの下でSOCK_DGRAM及びSOCK_STREAMソケット型
を実装する。L<Net::Server::Proto>を参照。

Any sockets created during startup will be chown'ed to the
user and group specified in the starup arguments.

開始時に生成されたソケットは、開始時の引数で指定された
user及びgroupにchownされる。

=head1 パラメータ

The following paramaters may be specified in addition to
normal command line parameters for a Net::Server.  See
L<Net::Server> for more information on reading arguments.

Net::Serverの通常のコマンドライン引数に加えて、以下の
パラメータを指定できる。引数の詳細については
L<Net::Server>を参照のこと。

=over 4

=item unix_type

Can be either SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_DGRAM (default is SOCK_STREAM).
This can also be passed on the port line (see L<Net::Server::Proto>).

SOCK_STREAMないしはSOCK_DGRAMを指定できる（デフォルトはSOCK_STREAM）。
これはportの部分に渡しておくこともできる（L<Net::Server::Proto>参照）。

=item unix_path

Default path to the socket file for this UNIX socket.  Default
is undef.  This can also be passed on the port line (see
L<Net::Server::Proto>).

このUNIXソケット用のソケットファイルへのデフォルトパス。
デフォルトはundef。これはportの部分に渡しておくことも
できる（L<Net::Server::Proto>参照）。

=back

=head1 パラメータ早見表

  Key               Value                    Default

  ## UNIXソケットパラメータ
  unix_type         (SOCK_STREAM|SOCK_DGRAM) SOCK_STREAM
  unix_path         "filename"               undef

=head1 LICENCE

Distributed under the same terms as Net::Server

