
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

version::Internal - Perl extension for Version Objects

=end original

version::Internal - Perl extension for Version Objects
(TBT)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

Overloaded version objects for all modern versions of Perl.  This documents
the internal data representation and underlying code for version.pm.  See
L<version.pod> for daily usage.  This document is only useful for users
writing a subclass of version.pm or interested in the gory details.

=end original

最近の全てのバージョンの Perl 用のオーバーロードされた
バージョンオブジェクト。
This documents
the internal data representation and underlying code for version.pm.  See
L<version.pod> for daily usage.  This document is only useful for users
writing a subclass of version.pm or interested in the gory details.
(TBT)

=head1 What IS a version

=begin original

For the purposes of this module, a version "number" is a sequence of
positive integer values separated by one or more decimal points and 
optionally a single underscore.  This corresponds to what Perl itself 
uses for a version, as well as extending the "version as number" that 
is discussed in the various editions of the Camel book.

=end original

このモジュールの用途のため、バージョン「番号」は、1つ以上の小数点と
省略可能な
一つのアンダースコアによって区切られる正の整数値とします。
これは Perl 自身がバージョンを表すのに使用するものに対応し、また
ラクダ本の各版で論じられた「数字としてのバージョン」を拡張します。

=begin original

There are actually two distinct kinds of version objects:

=end original

実際にはバージョンオブジェクトには 2 種類あります。

=over 4

=item * Decimal Versions

(10 進数バージョン)

=begin original

Any version which "looks like a number", see L<Decimal Versions>.  This
also includes versions with a single decimal point and a single embedded
underscore, see L<Decimal Alpha Versions>, even though these must be quoted
to preserve the underscore formatting.

=end original

「数字のように見える」任意のバージョンについては、L<Decimal Versions> を
参照してください。
これは小数点一つや途中にアンダースコア一つを持つバージョンも含みます
(L<Decimal Alpha Versions> を参照) が、アンダースコアの書式を
保持するにはクォートされなければなりません。

=item * Dotted-Decimal Versions

(ドット付き 10 進数バージョン)

=begin original

Also referred to as "Dotted-Integer", these contains more than one decimal
point and may have an optional embedded underscore, see L<Dotted-Decimal
Versions>.  This is what is commonly used in most open source software as
the "external" version (the one used as part of the tag or tarfile name).
A leading 'v' character is now required and will warn if it missing.

=end original

また「ドット付き整数」とも呼ばれるもので、2 つ以上の小数点と任意の途中の
アンダースコア一つを持つものです; L<Dotted-Decimal Versions> を参照。
これはほとんどのオープンソースソフトウェアで「外部用」バージョン
(タグや tar ファイル名の一部分として使われるもの) として一般的に
使われているものです。
エクスポートされた L<qv()> 関数を使用すると、この種のバージョン
オブジェクトが生成されます。
A leading 'v' character is now required and will warn if it missing.
(TBT)

=back

=begin original

Both of these methods will produce similar version objects, in that
the default stringification will yield the version L<Normal Form> only 
if required:

=end original

これらのメソッド両方が同様のバージョンオブジェクトを生成します;
なぜなら、必要なときにのみデフォルトの文字列化はバージョンの
L<Normal Form> を生み出すからです:

  $v  = version->new(1.002);     # 1.002, but compares like 1.2.0
  $v  = version->new(1.002003);  # 1.002003
  $v2 = version->new("v1.2.3");  # v1.2.3

=begin original

In specific, version numbers initialized as L<Decimal Versions> will
stringify as they were originally created (i.e. the same string that was
passed to C<new()>.  Version numbers initialized as L<Dotted-Decimal Versions>
will be stringified as L<Normal Form>.

=end original

特に、L<Decimal Versions> として初期化されたバージョン番号は
最初に作られた時のもの (つまり、C<new()> に渡されたのと同じ文字列) で
文字列化します。
L<Dotted-Decimal Versions> として初期化されたバージョン番号は
L<Normal Form> として文字列化されます。

=head2 Decimal Versions

(10 進数バージョン)

=begin original

These correspond to historical versions of Perl itself prior to 5.6.0,
as well as all other modules which follow the Camel rules for the
$VERSION scalar.  A Decimal version is initialized with what looks like
a floating point number.  Leading zeros B<are> significant and trailing
zeros are implied so that a minimum of three places is maintained
between subversions.  What this means is that any subversion (digits
to the right of the decimal place) that contains less than three digits
will have trailing zeros added to make up the difference, but only for
purposes of comparison with other version objects.  For example:

=end original

これらは 5.6.0 より前の Perl 自身の歴史上のバージョンや、$VERSION スカラ用の
ラクダルールを踏襲する他のモジュール全てに対応します。
10 進数バージョンは浮動小数点のように見えるもので初期化されます。
先頭の 0 は B<有効で> 末尾の 0 は暗黙に仮定されるので、3 点の
最小値は下位バージョン間で保持されます。
これが意味するのは、3 桁より少ない桁数の下位バージョン (小数点より
右の数字) は全て末尾への0の追加によって補われますが、しかしそれは他の
バージョンオブジェクトとの比較のためだけです。
例えば:

                                   # Prints     Equivalent to  
  $v = version->new(      1.2);    # 1.2        v1.200.0
  $v = version->new(     1.02);    # 1.02       v1.20.0
  $v = version->new(    1.002);    # 1.002      v1.2.0
  $v = version->new(   1.0023);    # 1.0023     v1.2.300
  $v = version->new(  1.00203);    # 1.00203    v1.2.30
  $v = version->new( 1.002003);    # 1.002003   v1.2.3

=begin original

All of the preceding examples are true whether or not the input value is 
quoted.  The important feature is that the input value contains only a 
single decimal.  See also L<Alpha Versions> for how to handle 

=end original

入力値がクォートされているかに関わらず、先行例は全て真となります。
重要な特徴として、入力値が一つの小数点を持つことがあります。
扱う方法は L<Alpha Versions> も参照してください。

=begin original

IMPORTANT NOTE: As shown above, if your Decimal version contains more 
than 3 significant digits after the decimal place, it will be split on 
each multiple of 3, so 1.0003 is equivalent to v1.0.300, due to the need 
to remain compatible with Perl's own 5.005_03 == 5.5.30 interpretation.  
Any trailing zeros are ignored for mathematical comparison purposes.

=end original

IMPORTANT NOTE: As shown above, if your Decimal version contains more 
than 3 significant digits after the decimal place, it will be split on 
each multiple of 3, so 1.0003 is equivalent to v1.0.300, due to the need 
to remain compatible with Perl's own 5.005_03 == 5.5.30 interpretation.  
Any trailing zeros are ignored for mathematical comparison purposes.
(TBT)

=head2 Dotted-Decimal Versions

(ドット付き 10 進数バージョン)

=begin original

These are the newest form of versions, and correspond to Perl's own
version style beginning with 5.6.0.  Starting with Perl 5.10.0,
and most likely Perl 6, this is likely to be the preferred form.  This
method normally requires that the input parameter be quoted, although 
Perl's after 5.8.1 can use v-strings as a special form of quoting, but
this is highly discouraged.

=end original

これらは最も新しい形式のバージョンで、5.6.0 から始まる Perl 自身の
バージョン形式に対応します。
Perl 5.10.0 からは、またほぼ確実に Perl 6 でも、これが
好まれる形式になりそうです。
このメソッドは通常入力引数がクォートされている必要があり、
また 5.8.1 以降の Perl では v-文字列 をクォートの特別形式として
使用することができますが、これは強く非推奨です。

=begin original

Unlike L<Decimal Versions>, Dotted-Decimal Versions have more than
a single decimal point, e.g.:

=end original

L<Decimal Versions> と違って、ドット付き 10 進数バージョンは 2 つ以上の
小数点を持ちます。
例えば:

                                   # Prints
  $v = version->new( "v1.200");    # v1.200.0
  $v = version->new("v1.20.0");    # v1.20.0
  $v = qv("v1.2.3");               # v1.2.3
  $v = qv("1.2.3");                # v1.2.3
  $v = qv("1.20");                 # v1.20.0

=begin original

In general, Dotted-Decimal Versions permit the greatest amount of freedom
to specify a version, whereas Decimal Versions enforce a certain
uniformity.  See also L<New Operator> for an additional method of
initializing version objects.

=end original

一般的に、ドット付き 10 進数バージョンは最も高い自由度でバージョンを
指定でき、その一方で 10 進数バージョンは一定の統一性を強制します。
バージョンオブジェクトのもう一つの補助的な初期化メソッドについては
L<New Operator> も参照してください。

=begin original

Just like L<Decimal Versions>, Dotted-Decimal Versions can be used as 
L<Alpha Versions>.

=end original

L<Decimal Versions> と全く同様に、ドット付き 10 進数バージョンは
L<Alpha Versions> として使用することができます。

=head2 Decimal Alpha Versions

(10 進数 αバージョン)

=begin original

The one time that a Decimal version must be quoted is when a alpha form is
used with an otherwise Decimal version (i.e. a single decimal point).  This
is commonly used for CPAN releases, where CPAN or CPANPLUS will ignore alpha
versions for automatic updating purposes.  Since some developers have used
only two significant decimal places for their non-alpha releases, the
version object will automatically take that into account if the initializer
is quoted.  For example Module::Example was released to CPAN with the
following sequence of $VERSION's:

=end original

かつて 10 進数バージョンが必ずクォートされていなければならなかったのは、
アルファ形式が他の 10 進数バージョン (すなわち小数点が一つ) と一緒に
使われていたときです。
これはよく CPAN リリースに使われており、そこで CPAN や
CPANPLUS は自動アップデートのためにアルファバージョンを無視します。
非アルファリリースに小数の有効桁数を2としていた開発者がいたため、
バージョンオブジェクトは初期化子がクォートされていれば自動的に
それを考慮します。
例えば、Module::Example が以下の $VERSION 系列で CPAN に
リリースされたとします:

  # $VERSION    Stringified
  0.01          0.01
  0.02          0.02
  0.02_01       0.02_01
  0.02_02       0.02_02
  0.03          0.03
  etc.

=begin original

The stringified form of Decimal versions will always be the same string
that was used to initialize the version object.

=end original

10 進数バージョンの文字列化形式は、常にバージョンオブジェクトの初期化に
使われるのと同じ文字列です。

=head1 High level design

=head2 version objects

version.pm provides an overloaded version object that is designed to both 
encapsulate the author's intended $VERSION assignment as well as make it
completely natural to use those objects as if they were numbers (e.g. for
comparisons).  To do this, a version object contains both the original 
representation as typed by the author, as well as a parsed representation
to ease comparisons.  Version objects employ L<overload> methods to
simplify code that needs to compare, print, etc the objects.

The internal structure of version objects is a blessed hash with several
components:

    bless( {
      'original' => 'v1.2.3_4',
      'alpha' => 1,
      'qv' => 1,
      'version' => [
	1,
	2,
	3,
	4
      ]
    }, 'version' );

=over 4

=item original

A faithful representation of the value used to initialize this version
object.  The only time this will not be precisely the same characters
that exist in the source file is if a short dotted-decimal version like
v1.2 was used (in which case it will contain 'v1.2').  This form is
B<STRONGLY> discouraged, in that it will confuse you and your users.

=item qv

A boolean that denotes whether this is a decimal or dotted-decimal version.
See L<is_qv>.

=item alpha

A boolean that denotes whether this is an alpha version.  NOTE: that the
underscore can can only appear in the last position.  See L<is_alpha>.

=item version

An array of non-negative integers that is used for comparison purposes with
other version objects.

=back

=head2 Replacement UNIVERSAL::VERSION

(代替 UNIVERSAL::VERSION)

=begin original

In addition to the version objects, this modules also replaces the core
UNIVERSAL::VERSION function with one that uses version objects for its
comparisons.  The return from this operator is always the stringified form
as a simple scalar (i.e. not an object), but the warning message generated
includes either the stringified form or the normal form, depending on how
it was called.

=end original

バージョンオブジェクトに加えて、このモジュールは比較のためにコアの
UNIVERSAL::VERSION 関数をバージョンオブジェクトを使うものに
置き換えることも行います。
この演算子から返されるものは常に単純なスカラとして文字列化された形式ですが、
生成された警告メッセージは、どのように呼び出されたかに依存して、
文字列化形式か Normal Form のどちらかになります。

=begin original

For example:

=end original

例えば:

  package Foo;
  $VERSION = 1.2;

  package Bar;
  $VERSION = "v1.3.5"; # works with all Perl's (since it is quoted)

  package main;
  use version;

  print $Foo::VERSION; # prints 1.2

  print $Bar::VERSION; # prints 1.003005

  eval "use foo 10";
  print $@; # prints "foo version 10 required..."
  eval "use foo 1.3.5; # work in Perl 5.6.1 or better
  print $@; # prints "foo version 1.3.5 required..."

  eval "use bar 1.3.6";
  print $@; # prints "bar version 1.3.6 required..."
  eval "use bar 1.004"; # note Decimal version
  print $@; # prints "bar version 1.004 required..."

=begin original

IMPORTANT NOTE: This may mean that code which searches for a specific
string (to determine whether a given module is available) may need to be
changed.  It is always better to use the built-in comparison implicit in
C<use> or C<require>, rather than manually poking at C<class->VERSION>
and then doing a comparison yourself.

=end original

重要な注意: (与えられたモジュールが利用可能かどうかを決定するために)
特定の文字列を検索するためのコードは変更が必要かもしれないことを
意味します。
手動で C<class->VERSION> を使ってから自分で比較を行うより、
C<use> や C<require> で暗黙に使われる組み込みの比較を使う方が
常に優れています。

=begin original

The replacement UNIVERSAL::VERSION, when used as a function, like this:

=end original

UNIVERSAL::VERSION の代替物は、以下のように関数として使われた際:

  print $module->VERSION;

=begin original

will also exclusively return the stringified form.  See L<Stringification>
for more details.

=end original

これも文字列化形式のみを返します。
更なる詳細については L<Stringification> を参照してください。

=head1 Usage question

(使い方の質問)

=head2 Using modules that use version.pm

(version.pm を使うモジュールの使い方)

=begin original

As much as possible, the version.pm module remains compatible with all
current code.  However, if your module is using a module that has defined
C<$VERSION> using the version class, there are a couple of things to be
aware of.  For purposes of discussion, we will assume that we have the
following module installed:

=end original

可能な限り、version.pm モジュールは既存の全てのコードとの互換性を保ちます。
ただし、もしあなたのモジュールがバージョンクラスを用いて C<$VERSION> を
定義するモジュールを使用している場合、知っておくべきことがいくつか
あります。
議論のため、以下のモジュールがインストールされていることを仮定します:

  package Example;
  use version;  $VERSION = qv('1.2.2');
  ...module code here...
  1;

=over 4

=item Decimal versions always work

(10 進数バージョンは常に動作する)

=begin original

Code of the form:

=end original

以下の形式のコード:

  use Example 1.002003;

=begin original

will always work correctly.  The C<use> will perform an automatic
C<$VERSION> comparison using the floating point number given as the first
term after the module name (e.g. above 1.002.003).  In this case, the
installed module is too old for the requested line, so you would see an
error like:

=end original

は常に正しく動作します。
C<use> はモジュール名の次の項として与えられる
浮動小数点 (例:上述の 1.002.003) を使って自動的に C<$VERSION> の比較を
行います。
この例では、インストールされているモジュールは要求されたコードに
対して古すぎるので、次のようなエラーが表示されるでしょう:

  Example version 1.002003 (v1.2.3) required--this is only version 1.002002 (v1.2.2)...

=item Dotted-Decimal version work sometimes

(ドット付き 10 進数バージョンは時々動作する)

=begin original

With Perl >= 5.6.2, you can also use a line like this:

=end original

Perl >= 5.6.2 では、次のようなコードを使うこともできます:

  use Example 1.2.3;

=begin original

and it will again work (i.e. give the error message as above), even with
releases of Perl which do not normally support v-strings (see L<What about
v-strings> below).  This has to do with that fact that C<use> only checks
to see if the second term I<looks like a number> and passes that to the
replacement L<UNIVERSAL::VERSION>.  This is not true in Perl 5.005_04,
however, so you are B<strongly encouraged> to always use a Decimal version
in your code, even for those versions of Perl which support the Dotted-Decimal
version.

=end original

そしてこれも、たとえ通常は v-文字列 (下記の L<What about v-strings> を参照) を
サポートしていないバージョンの Perl であっても、正常に動作するでしょう
(すなわち、上述のエラーメッセージが表示されます)。
この場合、C<use> は 2 番目の項が I<数字のように見える> かどうかをチェックし、
それを Replacement L<UNIVERSAL::VERSION>に渡すだけだという事実が
関わってきます。
しかし、このことは Perl 5.005_04 では正しくなく、そのために
ドット付き 10 進数バージョンをサポートする Perl のバージョンにおいてさえも、
コード中では常に 10 進数バージョンを使うことが B<強く推奨> されます。

=back

=head2 Object Methods

(オブジェクトメソッド)

=begin original

Overloading has been used with version objects to provide a natural
interface for their use.  All mathematical operations are forbidden,
since they don't make any sense for base version objects.  Consequently,
there is no overloaded numification available.  If you want to use a
version object in a Decimal context for some reason, see the L<numify>
object method.

=end original

バージョンオブジェクトの利用にとって自然なインタフェースを提供するために、
オーバーロードが使われてきました。
数学的な演算は全て、ベースのバージョンオブジェクトに対して意味を
成さないので、禁止されています。
その結果、オーバーロードされた数値化は存在せず利用できません。
もし何らかの理由でバージョンオブジェクトを 10 進数コンテキストで使用したい
場合は、オブジェクトメソッドの L<numify> を参照してください。

=over 4

=item * New Operator

(new 演算子)

=begin original

Like all OO interfaces, the new() operator is used to initialize
version objects.  One way to increment versions when programming is to
use the CVS variable $Revision, which is automatically incremented by
CVS every time the file is committed to the repository.

=end original

全ての OO インタフェースと同様に、new() 演算子はバージョンオブジェクトを
初期化するために使われます。
プログラミング時にバージョンをインクリメントするための方法の一つは
CVS 変数の $Revision を使うことです。
$Revision はファイルがリポジトリにコミットされた際に毎回 CVS によって
自動的にインクリメントされます。

=begin original

In order to facilitate this feature, the following
code can be employed:

=end original

この機能を容易に行うために、以下のコードが利用できます:

  $VERSION = version->new(qw$Revision$);

=begin original

and the version object will be created as if the following code
were used:

=end original

これにより、以下のコードが使われたかのようにバージョンオブジェクトが
作成されます:

  $VERSION = version->new("v2.7");

=begin original

In other words, the version will be automatically parsed out of the
string, and it will be quoted to preserve the meaning CVS normally
carries for versions.  The CVS $Revision$ increments differently from
Decimal versions (i.e. 1.10 follows 1.9), so it must be handled as if
it were a L<Dotted-Decimal Version>.

=end original

言い換えると、構文解析により文字列からバージョンが自動的に取り出され、
CVS が通常バージョンで伝える意味を保つためにそれがクォートされます。
CVS の $Revision$ は 10 進数バージョンとは異なった方法でインクリメントされる
(すなわち 1.9 の後に 1.10 が続く) ので、それが L<Dotted-Decimal Versions> で
あるかのように扱わなければなりません。

=begin original

A new version object can be created as a copy of an existing version
object, either as a class method:

=end original

新しいバージョンオブジェクトは既存のバージョンオブジェクトのコピーとして
作成可能で、クラスメソッドとして作成する:

  $v1 = version->new(12.3);
  $v2 = version->new($v1);

=begin original

or as an object method:

=end original

ことも、あるいはオブジェクトメソッドとして作成する:

  $v1 = version->new(12.3);
  $v2 = $v1->new(12.3);

=begin original

and in each case, $v1 and $v2 will be identical.  NOTE: if you create
a new object using an existing object like this:

=end original

こともでき、それぞれの例において、$v1 と $v2 は同一です。
注意: もし新しいオブジェクトを次のように既存のオブジェクトを使って
作成する場合:

  $v2 = $v1->new();

=begin original

the new object B<will not> be a clone of the existing object.  In the
example case, $v2 will be an empty object of the same type as $v1.

=end original

新しいオブジェクトは既存のオブジェクトのクローンには B<なりません>。
この例では、$v2 は $v1 と同じ種類の空のオブジェクトになります。

=back

=over 4

=item * qv()

=begin original

An alternate way to create a new version object is through the exported
qv() sub.  This is not strictly like other q? operators (like qq, qw),
in that the only delimiters supported are parentheses (or spaces).  It is
the best way to initialize a short version without triggering the floating
point interpretation.  For example:

=end original

新しいバージョンオブジェクトを作成する別の方法に、エクスポートされた
qv() 関数を使う方法があります。
これは、利用可能なデリミタが丸カッコ (またはスペース) のみであるという点で、
厳密には他の q? 演算子 (qq, qw など) とは似ていません。
これは、小数点解釈を引き起こすことなしに短いバージョンを初期化するための
最良の方法です。
例えば:

  $v1 = qv(1.2);         # v1.2.0
  $v2 = qv("1.2");       # also v1.2.0

=begin original

As you can see, either a bare number or a quoted string can usually 
be used interchangably, except in the case of a trailing zero, which
must be quoted to be converted properly.  For this reason, it is strongly
recommended that all initializers to qv() be quoted strings instead of
bare numbers.

=end original

ご覧の通り、裸の数値またはクォートされた文字列は通常交換して
使用できます。
ただし、末尾に 0 があるケースは、正しく変換するためにクォートされる必要が
あるので例外です。
この理由のため、qv() への全ての初期化子は裸の数値のかわりに
クォートされた文字列とすることが強く推奨されます。

=begin original

To prevent the C<qv()> function from being exported to the caller's namespace,
either use version with a null parameter:

=end original

C<qv()> 関数が呼び出し側の名前空間にエクスポートされるのを防ぐために、空の
引数で use version を呼び出すか:

  use version ();

=begin original

or just require version, like this:

=end original

あるいは単に require version を行うか:

  require version;

=begin original

Both methods will prevent the import() method from firing and exporting the
C<qv()> sub.  This is true of subclasses of version as well, see
L<SUBCLASSING> for details.

=end original

のいずれかを行ってください。
両方のメソッドとも import() メソッドが起動して C<qv()> サブルーチンを
エクスポートするのを防ぎます。
このことは version のサブクラスでも同じように成り立ちます。
詳しくは L<SUBCLASSING> を参照してください。

=back

=begin original

For the subsequent examples, the following three objects will be used:

=end original

以降の例では、以下の 3 つのオブジェクトが使われます:

  $ver   = version->new("1.2.3.4"); # see "Quoting" below
  $alpha = version->new("1.2.3_4"); # see "Alpha versions" below
  $nver  = version->new(1.002);     # see "Decimal Versions" above

=over 4

=item * Normal Form

(正規形式)

=begin original

For any version object which is initialized with multiple decimal
places (either quoted or if possible v-string), or initialized using
the L<qv()> operator, the stringified representation is returned in
a normalized or reduced form (no extraneous zeros), and with a leading 'v':

=end original

複数の小数点 (クォートされたものか可能であればv-文字列) を用いて、
もしくは L<qv()> 演算子を用いて初期化されたバージョンオブジェクトのために、
文字列化された表現形式が正規化もしくは縮小された形式 (余分なゼロを削除) で、
先頭に 'v' が付いて返されます:

  print $ver->normal;         # prints as v1.2.3.4
  print $ver->stringify;      # ditto
  print $ver;                 # ditto
  print $nver->normal;        # prints as v1.2.0
  print $nver->stringify;     # prints as 1.002, see "Stringification" 

=begin original

In order to preserve the meaning of the processed version, the 
normalized representation will always contain at least three sub terms.
In other words, the following is guaranteed to always be true:

=end original

処理されたバージョンの意味を保つために、正規化された表現形式は必ず最低
3 つの下位項を持たなければなりません。
言い換えると、以下のコードは常に真となることが保証されます:

  my $newver = version->new($ver->stringify);
  if ($newver eq $ver ) # always true
    {...}

=back

=over 4

=item * Numification

(数値化)

=begin original

Although all mathematical operations on version objects are forbidden
by default, it is possible to retrieve a number which corresponds 
to the version object through the use of the $obj->numify
method.  For formatting purposes, when displaying a number which
corresponds a version object, all sub versions are assumed to have
three decimal places.  So for example:

=end original

バージョンオブジェクトに対する数学的な演算はデフォルトでは全て
禁止されていますが、$obj->numify メソッドを使うことでそのバージョン
オブジェクトに対応した数値を取り出すことが可能です。
フォーマッティングのために、バージョンオブジェクトに対応する数値を
表示する際には、下位バージョンは全て 3 桁あると仮定されます。
従って、例を挙げると以下のようになります:

  print $ver->numify;         # prints 1.002003004
  print $nver->numify;        # prints 1.002

=begin original

Unlike the stringification operator, there is never any need to append
trailing zeros to preserve the correct version value.

=end original

文字列化演算子と違って、正しいバージョン値を保持するために末尾のゼロを
追加する必要は全くありません。

=back

=over 4

=item * Stringification

(文字列化)

=begin original

The default stringification for version objects returns exactly the same
string as was used to create it, whether you used C<new()> or C<qv()>,
with one exception.  The sole exception is if the object was created using
C<qv()> and the initializer did not have two decimal places or a leading
'v' (both optional), then the stringified form will have a leading 'v'
prepended, in order to support round-trip processing.

=end original

バージョンオブジェクトの文字列化のデフォルトは、
C<new()> によるか C<qv()> によるかに関わらず、
オブジェクトを作成したのと全く同じ文字列となりますが、ひとつの例外が
あります。
唯一の例外は、オブジェクトが C<qv()> を使って作成され、
初期化子が 2 つの十進数がなかったり、先頭の 'v' がない場合
(これらは両方ともオプションです)、循環処理に対応するために、
文字列化形式は先頭に 'v' がつきます。

=begin original

For example:

=end original

例えば:

  Initialized as          Stringifies to
  ==============          ==============
  version->new("1.2")       1.2
  version->new("v1.2")     v1.2
  qv("1.2.3")               1.2.3
  qv("v1.3.5")             v1.3.5
  qv("1.2")                v1.2   ### exceptional case 

=begin original

See also L<UNIVERSAL::VERSION>, as this also returns the stringified form
when used as a class method.

=end original

L<UNIVERSAL::VERSION> も参照してください; これも、クラスメソッドとして
使われたときには文字列化形式を返します。

=begin original

IMPORTANT NOTE: There is one exceptional cases shown in the above table
where the "initializer" is not stringwise equivalent to the stringified
representation.  If you use the C<qv()> operator on a version without a
leading 'v' B<and> with only a single decimal place, the stringified output
will have a leading 'v', to preserve the sense.  See the L<qv()> operator
for more details.

=end original

IMPORTANT NOTE: There is one exceptional cases shown in the above table
where the "initializer" is not stringwise equivalent to the stringified
representation.  If you use the C<qv()> operator on a version without a
leading 'v' B<and> with only a single decimal place, the stringified output
will have a leading 'v', to preserve the sense.  See the L<qv()> operator
for more details.
(TBT)

=begin original

IMPORTANT NOTE 2: Attempting to bypass the normal stringification rules by
manually applying L<numify()> and L<normal()> will sometimes yield
surprising results:

=end original

IMPORTANT NOTE 2: Attempting to bypass the normal stringification rules by
manually applying L<numify()> and L<normal()> will sometimes yield
surprising results:
(TBT)

  print version->new(version->new("v1.0")->numify)->normal; # v1.0.0

=begin original

The reason for this is that the L<numify()> operator will turn "v1.0"
into the equivalent string "1.000000".  Forcing the outer version object
to L<normal()> form will display the mathematically equivalent "v1.0.0".

=end original

The reason for this is that the L<numify()> operator will turn "v1.0"
into the equivalent string "1.000000".  Forcing the outer version object
to L<normal()> form will display the mathematically equivalent "v1.0.0".
(TBT)

=begin original

As the example in L<new()> shows, you can always create a copy of an
existing version object with the same value by the very compact:

=end original

As the example in L<new()> shows, you can always create a copy of an
existing version object with the same value by the very compact:
(TBT)

  $v2 = $v1->new($v1);

=begin original

and be assured that both C<$v1> and C<$v2> will be completely equivalent,
down to the same internal representation as well as stringification.

=end original

and be assured that both C<$v1> and C<$v2> will be completely equivalent,
down to the same internal representation as well as stringification.
(TBT)

=back

=over 4

=item * Comparison operators

(比較演算子)

=begin original

Both C<cmp> and C<E<lt>=E<gt>> operators perform the same comparison between
terms (upgrading to a version object automatically).  Perl automatically
generates all of the other comparison operators based on those two.
In addition to the obvious equalities listed below, appending a single
trailing 0 term does not change the value of a version for comparison
purposes.  In other words "v1.2" and "1.2.0" will compare as identical.

=end original

C<cmp> と C<E<lt>=E<gt>> は両方とも同じ比較を項間で行います (自動的に
バージョンオブジェクトにアップグレードします)。
それら 2 つに基づいて、Perl は他の比較演算子を全て自動的に生成します。
以下に挙げられている明らかな等値性に加えて、末尾に 0 の項を一つ追加しても
比較用のバージョン値は変化しません。
言い換えると、"v1.2" と"1.2.0" の比較は同一と見なされます。

=begin original

For example, the following relations hold:

=end original

例えば、以下の関係が維持されます:

  As Number        As String           Truth Value
  -------------    ----------------    -----------
  $ver >  1.0      $ver gt "1.0"       true
  $ver <  2.5      $ver lt             true
  $ver != 1.3      $ver ne "1.3"       true
  $ver == 1.2      $ver eq "1.2"       false
  $ver == 1.2.3.4  $ver eq "1.2.3.4"   see discussion below

=begin original

It is probably best to chose either the Decimal notation or the string
notation and stick with it, to reduce confusion.  Perl6 version objects
B<may> only support Decimal comparisons.  See also L<Quoting>.

=end original

10 進数記法か文字列記法のどちらかを選んでそれを使い続けることが、混乱を
避けるためにはおそらくベストでしょう。
Perl6 のバージョンオブジェクトは 10 進数比較のみを
サポートする B<かもしれません>。
L<Quoting> も参照してください。

=begin original

WARNING: Comparing version with unequal numbers of decimal points (whether
explicitly or implicitly initialized), may yield unexpected results at
first glance.  For example, the following inequalities hold:

=end original

警告:(初期化が明示的か暗黙的かに関わらず) 小数点の数が異なるバージョンの
比較は一見すると期待しない結果を生み出すかもしれません。
例えば、以下の非等値性が成り立ちます:

  version->new(0.96)     > version->new(0.95); # 0.960.0 > 0.950.0
  version->new("0.96.1") < version->new(0.95); # 0.096.1 < 0.950.0

=begin original

For this reason, it is best to use either exclusively L<Decimal Versions> or
L<Dotted-Decimal Versions> with multiple decimal points.

=end original

この理由のため、L<Decimal Versions> か L<Dotted-Decimal Versions> のどちらかを
排他的に、かつ複数の小数点を付けて使うことがベストです。

=back

=over 4

=item * Logical Operators 

=begin original

If you need to test whether a version object
has been initialized, you can simply test it directly:

=end original

もしバージョンオブジェクトが初期化されているかどうかを確かめたければ、
簡単に直接テストできます:

  $vobj = version->new($something);
  if ( $vobj )   # true only if $something was non-blank

=begin original

You can also test whether a version object is an L<Alpha version>, for
example to prevent the use of some feature not present in the main
release:

=end original

また、例えばメインリリースでは提供されない機能の使用を防ぐといった
目的のために、バージョンオブジェクトが L<Alpha Versions> であるかどうかを
確かめるには以下のようにします:

  $vobj = version->new("1.2_3"); # MUST QUOTE
  ...later...
  if ( $vobj->is_alpha )       # True

=back

=head2 Quoting

(クォート)

=begin original

Because of the nature of the Perl parsing and tokenizing routines,
certain initialization values B<must> be quoted in order to correctly
parse as the intended version, especially when using the L<qv()> operator.
In all cases, a floating point number passed to version->new() will be
identically converted whether or not the value itself is quoted.  This is
not true for L<qv()>, however, when trailing zeros would be stripped on
an unquoted input, which would result in a very different version object.

=end original

Perl がパースとトークン化を行うプログラムの仕組みのため、意図した
バージョンに正しくパースするために、特に L<qv()> 演算子を使用する際には、
特定の初期値は B<必ず> クォートしなければなりません。
全てのケースにおいて、version->new() に渡される浮動小数点数の値は、その値が
クォートされていようとなかろうと同一に変換されます。
しかし、L<qv()> では、クォートされていない入力で末尾のゼロが
抜け落ちてしまう場合にはそのようにならず、全く異なる
バージョンオブジェクトが結果として返されます。

=begin original

In addition, in order to be compatible with earlier Perl version styles,
any use of versions of the form 5.006001 will be translated as v5.6.1.  
In other words, a version with a single decimal point will be parsed as
implicitly having three digits between subversions, but only for internal
comparison purposes.

=end original

加えて、以前の Perl のバージョンスタイルと互換性を保つために、5.006001 と
いう形式のバージョンを使用すると全て v5.6.1 のように変換されます。
言い換えると、小数点が 1 つのバージョンは、下位バージョン間には 3 桁の
数字が暗黙的に存在するようにパースされますが、その目的は内部比較のみです。

=begin original

The complicating factor is that in bare numbers (i.e. unquoted), the
underscore is a legal Decimal character and is automatically stripped
by the Perl tokenizer before the version code is called.  However, if
a number containing one or more decimals and an underscore is quoted, i.e.
not bare, that is considered a L<Alpha Version> and the underscore is
significant.

=end original

ややこしくしている要因は、裸の数値 (すなわちクォートされていないもの) では
アンダースコアは正当な 10 進数用の文字であって、バージョンコードが
呼び出される前に Perl のトークナイザによって自動的に剥ぎ取られることです。
しかしながら、もし数値が 1 つ以上の小数を含んでいてアンダースコアが
クォートされている場合、すなわち裸の数値ではない場合、
L<Alpha Version> であると見なされてアンダースコアが有効になります。

=begin original

If you use a mathematic formula that resolves to a floating point number,
you are dependent on Perl's conversion routines to yield the version you
expect.  You are pretty safe by dividing by a power of 10, for example,
but other operations are not likely to be what you intend.  For example:

=end original

もし浮動小数が求まる数式を使った場合、期待するバージョンを生み出せるか
どうかは Perl の変換ルーチンに依存することになります。
例えば 10 の累乗で割ることは非常に安全ですが、他の演算はおそらく期待する
値にはならないでしょう。
例えば:

  $VERSION = version->new((qw$Revision: 1.4)[1]/10);
  print $VERSION;          # yields 0.14
  $V2 = version->new(100/9); # Integer overflow in decimal number
  print $V2;               # yields something like 11.111.111.100

=begin original

Perl 5.8.1 and beyond will be able to automatically quote v-strings but
that is not possible in earlier versions of Perl.  In other words:

=end original

Perl 5.8.1 以降はv-文字列を自動的にクォートできますが、それは以前の
バージョンの Perl では不可能です。
言い換えれると:

  $version = version->new("v2.5.4");  # legal in all versions of Perl
  $newvers = version->new(v2.5.4);    # legal only in Perl >= 5.8.1

=head1 SUBCLASSING

(サブクラス化)

=begin original

This module is specifically designed and tested to be easily subclassed.
In practice, you only need to override the methods you want to change, but
you have to take some care when overriding new() (since that is where all
of the parsing takes place).  For example, this is a perfect acceptable
derived class:

=end original

このモジュールは簡単にサブクラス化ができるように明確に設計やテストがさ
れています。
実際には、変更したいメソッドをオーバーライドするだけで OK ですが、
new() をオーバーライドする際には注意が必要です (パースが全て行われる
場所なので)。
例えば、これは完全に条件を満たしている派生クラスです:

  package myversion;
  use base version;
  sub new { 
      my($self,$n)=@_;
      my $obj;
      # perform any special input handling here
      $obj = $self->SUPER::new($n);
      # and/or add additional hash elements here
      return $obj;
  }

=begin original

See also L<version::AlphaBeta> on CPAN for an alternate representation of
version strings.

=end original

バージョン文字列の代替の表現形式については CPAN の L<version::AlphaBeta> も
参照してください。

=begin original

B<NOTE:> Although the L<qv> operator is not a true class method, but rather a
function exported into the caller's namespace, a subclass of version will 
inherit an import() function which will perform the correct magic on behalf
of the subclass.

=end original

B<注意>: L<qv> 演算子は真のクラスメソッドではなく、むしろ呼び出し元の
名前空間にエクスポートされた関数で、version のサブクラスは、その
サブクラスに代わって正しいマジックを実行する import() 関数を継承します。

=head1 EXPORT

=begin original

qv - Dotted-Decimal Version initialization operator

=end original

qv - ドット付き 10 進数バージョン初期化演算子

=head1 AUTHOR

John Peacock E<lt>jpeacock@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<perl>.

=begin meta

Translate: Kenji Inoue <kenz@oct.zaq.ne.jp> (0.70)
Update: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org> (0.74-)
Status: in progress

=end meta

=cut

