=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::Click - Click buttons and links on web page

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::Click - ウェブページのボタンやリンクをクリック

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    plugins = ( ::Click )

    test_name = Some test
        click_link = Name of the link
    end_test

    test_name = Another test
        click_button = Name of the button
    end_test

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This plugin lets you use the names of links and buttons on HTML pages to
build test requests.

このプラグインではテストリクエストの構築時に HTML ページのリンクやボタンの
名前を使えるようにします.

=head1 TEST PARAMETERS
テストパラメータ

=head2 click_button

Given name of submit button (i.e. C<<input type="submit"E<gt>> tag or
C<<input type="image"E<gt>> inside of C<<formE<gt>> tag) on previously
requested HTML page, builds test request to the submitted page.

前に要求した HTML ページのサブミットボタンの名前(つまり C<<formE<gt>> 内の
C<<input type="submit"E<gt>> タグや C<<input type="image"E<gt>>)を
与えることで, サブミット先のページへのテストリクエストを作ります.

Note that you still need to pass all form parameters yourself using
C<params> test parameter.

このパラメータを使っても, C<params> テストパラメータで全ての
パラメータを指定しなければならないことに注意してください.

=head3 Example
例

See example in L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook>.

L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook> にある例を
参照してください.

=head2 click_link

Given name of link (i.e. C<<aE<gt>> tag) on previosly requested HTML
page, builds test request to the linked page.

前に要求した HTML ページのリンクの名前(つまり C<<aE<gt>> タグ)を
与えることで, サブミット先のページへのテストリクエストを作ります.

=head3 Example
例

See example in L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook>.

L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook> にある例を
参照してください.

=head2 form_name

Give form name attribute (i.e. C<<form name="foo"E<gt>>) on previously
requested HTML page, builds test request to the submitted page.

前に要求した HTML ページのフォームの名前(つまり
C<<form name="foo"E<gt>> )を
与えることで, サブミット先のページへのテストリクエストを作ります.

Note that you still need to pass all form parameters yourself using
C<params> test parameter.

このパラメータを使っても, C<params> テストパラメータで全ての
パラメータを指定しなければならないことに注意してください.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトです. このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で
再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


