=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::Hooks - Provides callbacks called during test run

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::Hooks - テスト実行中に呼ばれるコールバックの提供

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

    plugins = ( ::Hooks )

    # do some test sequence initialization
    # テストシーケンスの何か初期化処理 
    on_start = { My::init() }

    # do some test sequence deinitialization
    # テストシーケンスの何か終了処理 
    on_finish = { My::stop() }

    test_name = Name1
        ....
        # do some test initialization
        # 何かテストの初期化処理 
        on_request = { My::local_init() }
    end_test

    test_name = Name2
        ....
        # define custom test
        # カスタムテストの定義 
        on_response = ( { My::test() ? 'yes' : 'no' } => 'My test' )
    end_test

    test_name = Name3
        ....
        # call finalization code with returning any test results
        # テスト結果を完了させる処理を呼び出す. 
        on_response = { My::finalize(); return [] }
    end_test

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This plugin module adds test parameters whose values are evaluated at
specific times of the L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> test run.  It can be
used to do some initialization before doing test request, to do some
finalization when test response is received or to implement user
defined tests without writing a new plugin module.

このプラグインモジュールはテストの実行中に L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> の
特定の時に評価されるテストパラメータを追加します. テストリクエスト前の
初期化, テスト結果を受け取った後の終了処理, プラグインモジュールを
書かないでの新しいテストの定義などを行うことができます.

=head1 TEST PARAMETERS
テストパラメータ

=head2 on_start

The value of this test parameter is ignored.  However, it is evaluted
before the test sequence is run, so it can be used to do initalization
before the test sequence run.

このテストパラメータの値は無視されます. 
しかしテストシーケンスが実行される前に評価されます. 
つまりテストシーケンスが実行される前に初期化を行うために使うことができます.

=head3 Example
例

See example in L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook>.

L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook> にある例を
参照してください.

=head2 on_finish

The value of this test parameter is ignored.  However, it is evaluted
before the test sequence is run, so it can be used to run finalization
code when the test sequence is finished.

このテストパラメータの値は無視されます. 
しかしテストシーケンスが実行される前に(訳注:後にの間違い？)評価されます. 
つまりテストシーケンスが終わったときに終了用のコードを実行させるために
使うことができます.

=head3 Example
例

See example in L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook>.

L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook> にある例を
参照してください.

=head2 on_request

The value of this test parameter is ignored.  However, it is evaluted
before the HTTP request is done, so it can be used to do
initalization before the request.

このテストパラメータの値は無視されます. 
しかし HTTP リクエストを行う前に評価されます. 
つまりリクエスト前に初期化を行うために使うことができます.

=head2 on_response

This is a list parameter which is treated as test result.  It is
evaluted when the HTTP response for the test request is received.

テスト結果として処理されるリストパラメータを設定します. 
これはテストリクエストに対する HTTP レスポンスを受信したときに
評価されます.

It can be used to define custom tests without writing new plugins.
It can also be used to run some code when the HTTP response for the test
request is received.

このパラメータは新しいプラグインを書くことなしにカスタムテストを
定義するために使うことができます. テストリクエストに対する
HTTP レスポンスを受信したときに何らかのコードを実行するために使うことも
できます.

=head3 Allowed values
使用可能な値

    ( YESNO1, COMMENT1
      YESNO2, COMMENT2
      ....
      YESNON, COMMENTN )

Here C<YESNO>, C<COMMENT> is a test result.  C<YESNO> is either
C<yes> if test is successful or C<no> if it is not.  C<COMMENT> is a
comment associated with this test.

C<YESNO>, C<COMMENT> はテスト結果です. C<YESNO> は
成功時なら C<yes>, そうでなければ C<no> のどちらかです. 
C<COMMENT> はこのテストに関連するコメントです.

=head3 Example
例

See example in L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook>.

L<HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook|HTTP::WebTest::Cookbook> にある例を
参照してください.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトです. このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で
再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


