
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::SetRequest - Initializes HTTP request for web test

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::SetRequest - ウェブテストのための HTTP リクエストの初期化

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

Not Applicable

なし.

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This plugin initializes the HTTP request for a web test.

このプラグインはウェブテストのための HTTP リクエストを初期化します.

=head1 TEST PARAMETERS
テストパラメータ

=head2 relative_urls

If set to C<yes> than C<HTTP-WebTest> supports relative URLs.  See
test parameter C<url> for more information.

C<yes> を設定することで C<HTTP-WebTest> が相対URL をサポートするように
なります. より多くの情報は C<url> テストパラメータを参照してください.

=head3 Allowed values
使用可能な値

C<yes>, C<no>


=head3 Default value
デフォルト値

C<no>


=head2 url

URL to test.

テストするURL.

If test parameter C<relative_urls> is set to C<yes> than URL for each
test is treated as relative to the URL in the previous test.  URL in
the first test is treated as relative to C<http://localhost>.

テストパラメータ C<relative_urls> が C<yes> に設定されているときは
１つ前のテストの URL からの相対URLとして処理されます. 最初のテストでは
C<http://localhost> からの相対として処理されます.

If test parameter C<relative_urls> is set to C<no> than each URL is
treated as absolute.  In this case if schema part of URL is omitted
(i.e. URL doesn't start with C<http://>, C<ftp://>, etc) then
C<http://> is implied.

テストパラメータ C<relative_urls> が C<no> に設定されているときは
絶対URLとして処理されます. この時, URL のスキーマ部分が省略されている
時(つまりURLがC<http://>, C<ftp://> 等で始まっていない時)は 
C<http://> が付加されます.

=head2 method
メソッド

HTTP request method.

HTTP リクエストメソッド.

See RFC 2616 (HTTP/1.1 protocol).

RFC 2616 (HTTP/1.1 プロトコル)を参照してください.

=head3 Allowed values
使用可能な値

C<GET>, C<POST>


=head3 Default value
デフォルト値

C<GET>


=head2 http_headers

A list of HTTP header/value pairs.  Can be used to override default
HTTP headers or to add additional HTTP headers.

HTTP ヘッダ/値ペアのリスト. デフォルトの HTTP ヘッダを上書きしたり
HTTP ヘッダを追加したりできます.

=head3 Example
例

    http_headers = ( Accept => text/plain, text/html )

=head2 params

A list of name/value pairs to be passed as parameters to the URL.
(This element is used to test pages that process input from forms.)

URL にパラメータとして渡す名前/値ペアのリスト.
(この要素はフォームからの入力を処理するページのテストのために使います.)

If the method key is set to C<GET>, these pairs are URI-escaped and
appended to the requested URL.

method キーに C<GET> が設定されているのならこれらのペアは
URI-エスケープされてリクエストURLに追加されます.

Example (wtscript file):

例 (wtscript ファイル):

    url = http://www.hotmail.com/cgi-bin/hmhome
    params = ( curmbox
               F001 A005
               from
               HotMail )

generates the HTTP request with URI:

生成される HTTP リクエスト URI:

    http://www.hotmail.com/cgi-bin/hmhome?curmbox=F001%20A005&from=HotMail

If the method key is set to C<POST>, as long as all values are scalars
they are URI-escaped and put into content of the HTTP request.
C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> content type is set for such HTTP
request.

もしメソッドキーが C<POST> に設定されているときは同じように
URI-エスケープされ, HTTP リクエストの本体で送られます.
この時,  HTTP リクエストに C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> 
コンテンツタイプが設定されます.

If the method key is set to C<POST>, some values may be defined as
lists.  In this case L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> uses
C<multipart/form-data> content type used for C<Form-based File Upload>
as specified in RFC 1867.  Each parameter with list value is treated
as file part specification with the following interpretation:

method キーが C<POST> に設定されているのなら値をリストで定義する
こともできます. この時 L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest> は RFC 1867 で
仕様化されている C<フォームベースのファイルアップロード> のために
C<multipart/form-data> コンテンツタイプを使います. リストの核パラメータは
以下の処理を通してファイルパートの指定として扱われます.

    ( FILE, FILENAME, HEADER => VALUE... )

where

それぞれの意味は以下の通りです.

=over 4

=item * FILE

The name of a file to open. This file will be read and its content
placed in the request.

読み込むファイルの名前. このファイルの中身がリクエストに使われます.

=item * FILENAME

The optional filename to be reported in the request.  If it is not
specified than basename of C<FILE> is used.

リクエストで報告する任意のファイル名. 指定されなかったときは
C<FILE> のベースネームが使われます.

=item * HEADER => VALUE

Additional optional headers for file part.

ファイルパートの任意の追加ヘッダ.

=back

Example (wtscript file):

例 (wtscript ファイル):

    url = http://www.server.com/upload.pl
    method = post
    params = ( submit => ok
               file   => ( '/home/ilya/file.txt', 'myfile.txt' ) )

It generates HTTP request with C</home/ilya/file.txt> file included
and reported under name C<myfile.txt>.

これは C<myfile.txt> という名前で C</home/ilya/file.txt> の中身を
送る HTTP リクエストを生成します.

=head2 auth

A list which contains two elements: userid/password pair to be used
for web page access authorization.

ウェブページへのアクセス認証に使うユーザ名/パスワードの２つの要素をもつ
リストを指定します.

=head2 proxies

A list of service name/proxy URL pairs that specify proxy servers to
use for requests.

リクエストに使うためのプロキシサーバを指定する
サービス名/プロキシURLのペアのリスト.

=head3 Example
例

    proxies = ( http => http://http_proxy.mycompany.com
                ftp  => http://ftp_proxy.mycompany.com )

=head2 pauth

A list which contains two elements: userid/password pair to be used
for proxy server access authorization.

２つの要素, プロキシサーバにアクセスするための認証のユーザ名/パスワードの
ペアを含むリスト.

=head2 user_agent

Set the product token that is used to identify the user agent on
the network.

ネットワーク上でユーザエージェントを識別するために使われる
製品トークンを設定します.

=head3 Default value
デフォルト値

C<HTTP-WebTest/NN>


where C<NN> is version number of HTTP-WebTest.

C<NN> は HTTP-WebTest のバージョン番号です.

=head2 handle_redirects

If set to C<yes> then HTTP-WebTest automatically follows redirects.
It means that you never see HTTP responses with status codes 301 and
302.  This feature is disabled if this test parameter is set to C<no>.

C<yes> の時 HTTP-WebTest が自動的にリダイレクトをたどります. 
これによってステータスコード 301 及び 302 の HTTP レスポンスを
みることはなくなります. この機能を無効にするにはこのテストパラメータに
C<no> を設定します.

=head3 Allowed values
使用可能な値

C<yes>, C<no>


=head3 Default value
デフォルト値

C<yes>


=head2 timeout

Set the timeout value in seconds.

タイムアウト値を秒で設定します.

=head3 Default value
デフォルト値

C<180>


=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Richard Anderson.  All rights reserved.


Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトです. このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で
再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


