
=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME
名前

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::TextMatchTest - Test the content of the HTTP response.

HTTP::WebTest::Plugin::TextMatchTest - HTTP レスポンスの内容をテストする

=head1 SYNOPSIS
概要

Not Applicable

なし.

=head1 DESCRIPTION
説明

This plugin supports test on the content of the HTTP response.  You can test
for the existence or non-existence of a literal string or a regular expression.

このプラグインは HTTP レスポンスの内容に対してのテストをサポートします. 
リテラル文字列や正規表現が存在することもしくは存在しないことをテストできます.

=head1 TEST PARAMETERS
テストパラメータ

=head2 ignore_case

Option to do case-insensitive string matching for C<text_forbid>,
C<text_require>, C<regex_forbid> and C<regex_require> test parameters.

C<text_forbid>, C<text_require>, C<regex_forbid> 及び C<regex_require>
テストパラメータで大文字小文字を区別しないマッチングを行うかどうかを
設定します.

=head3 Allowed values
使用可能な値

C<yes>, C<no>


=head3 Default value
デフォルト値

C<no>


=head2 text_forbid

List of text strings that are forbidden to exist in the returned
page.

返されたページの中に存在することを禁止するテキスト文字列のリスト.

See also the C<regex_forbid> and C<ignore_case> parameters.

C<regex_forbid> 及び C<ignore_case> パラメータも参照してください.

=head2 text_require

List of text strings that are required to exist in the returned
page.

返されたページの中に存在することを要求するテキスト文字列のリスト.

See also the C<regex_require> and C<ignore_case> parameters.

C<regex_require> 及び C<ignore_case> パラメータも参照してください.

=head2 regex_forbid

List of regular expressions that are forbidden to exist in the
returned page.

返されたページの中に存在することを禁止する正規表現のリスト.

For more information, see L<perldoc perlre|perlre> or see Programming
Perl, 3rd edition, Chapter 5.

詳細に関しては, L<perldoc perlre|perlre> もしくはプログラミング言語
Perl 第３版 第５章 を参照してください.

See also the C<text_forbid> and C<ignore_case> parameters.

C<text_forbid> 及び C<ignore_case> パラメータも参照してください.

=head2 regex_require

List of regular expressions that are required to exist in the
returned page.

返されたページの中に存在することを要求する正規表現のリスト.

For more information, see L<perldoc perlre|perlre> or see Programming Perl,
3rd edition, Chapter 5.

詳細に関しては, L<perldoc perlre|perlre> もしくはプログラミング言語
Perl 第３版 第５章 を参照してください.

See also the C<text_require> and C<ignore_case> parameters.

C<text_require> 及び C<ignore_case> パラメータも参照してください.

=head1 COPYRIGHT
著作権

Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Richard Anderson.  All rights reserved.


Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Ilya Martynov.  All rights reserved.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

このプログラムはフリーソフトです. このプログラムは Perl 自身と同じ条件下で
再配布・改変可能です.

=head1 SEE ALSO
関連項目

L<HTTP::WebTest|HTTP::WebTest>


L<HTTP::WebTest::API|HTTP::WebTest::API>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugin|HTTP::WebTest::Plugin>


L<HTTP::WebTest::Plugins|HTTP::WebTest::Plugins>


