
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

Win32::OLE::Enum - OLE Automation Collection Objects

=end original

Win32::OLE::Enum - OLE オートメーションコレクションオブジェクト

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $Sheets = $Excel->Workbooks(1)->Worksheets;
    my $Enum = Win32::OLE::Enum->new($Sheets);
    my @Sheets = $Enum->All;

    while (defined(my $Sheet = $Enum->Next)) { ... }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This module provides an interface to OLE collection objects from
Perl.  It defines an enumerator object closely mirroring the
functionality of the IEnumVARIANT interface.

=end original

このモジュールは Perl から OLE コレクションオブジェクトへのインタフェースを
提供します。
これは IEnumVARIANT インターフェースの機能をほとんどそのままのような列挙する
オブジェクトを定義します。

=begin original

Please note that the Reset() method is not available in all implementations
of OLE collections (like Excel 7).  In that case the Enum object is good
only for a single walk through of the collection.

=end original

Reset() メソッドが OLE コレクションのすべての実装で利用できるわけではない
(Excel7 のように)ことに注意してください。
その場合、Enum オブジェクトはコレクションを一度だけ通してみていくためだけに
有効です。

=head2 Functions/Methods

(関数/メソッド)

=over 8

=item Win32::OLE::Enum->new($object)

=begin original

Creates an enumerator for $object, which must be a valid OLE collection
object.  Note that correctly implemented collection objects must support
the C<Count> and C<Item> methods, so creating an enumerator is not always
necessary.

=end original

$object のための Enum オブジェクトを作成します。
$object は正しい OLE コレクションオブジェクトでなければなりません。
正しく実装されたコレクションオブジェクトは C<Count> と C<Item> メソッドを
サポートしていなければならないことに注意してください;
そのため Enum オブジェクトは常には必要ありません。

=item $Enum->All()

=begin original

Returns a list of all objects in the collection.  You have to call
$Enum->Reset() before the enumerator can be used again.  The previous
position in the collection is lost.

=end original

そのコレクションのなかのすべてのオブジェクトのリストを返します。
列挙するオブジェクトをもう一度、使う前に $Enum->Reset() を
呼ばなければなりません。
コレクション内の以前の位置は失われます。

=begin original

This method can also be called as a class method:

=end original

このメソッドはクラスメソッドとしても呼び出すことができます:

	my @list = Win32::OLE::Enum->All($Collection);

=item $Enum->Clone()

=begin original

Returns a clone of the enumerator maintaining the current position within
the collection (if possible).  Note that the C<Clone> method is often not
implemented.  Use $Enum->Clone() in an eval block to avoid dying if you
are not sure that Clone is supported.

=end original

(もし可能であれば)コレクションでの現在の位置を保持する Enum オブジェクトの
クローンを返します。
C<Clone> メソッドはしばしば実装されていないことに注意してください。
Clone がサポートされているかどうかわからなければ、die するのを避けるため
eval ブロックで $Enum->Clone() を使ってください。

=item $Enum->Next( [$count] )

=begin original

Returns the next element of the collection.  In a list context the optional
$count argument specifies the number of objects to be returned.  In a scalar
context only the last of at most $count retrieved objects is returned.  The
default for $count is 1.

=end original

コレクションの次の要素を返します。
リストコンテキストではオプションの $count 引数は返されるオブジェクトの数を
指定します。
スカラコンテキストでは $count の取り出されたオブジェクトの最後のものが
返されます。
$count のデフォルトは 1 です。

=item $Enum->Reset()

=begin original

Resets the enumeration sequence to the beginning.  There is no guarantee that
the exact same set of objects will be enumerated again (e.g. when enumerating
files in a directory).  The methods return value indicates the success of the
operation.  (Note that the Reset() method seems to be unimplemented in some
applications like Excel 7.  Use it in an eval block to avoid dying.)

=end original

列挙の順番を最初に戻します。
全く同じオブジェクトの集合が再び列挙されるかどうかは保証されません(例えば
ディレクトリに列挙されているファイルのとき)。
メソッドは処理が正常であることを示す値を返します(Reset() メソッドは
Excel 7 のようにアプリケーションによっては実装されていないようであることに
注意してください。
die ことを避けるために、evalブロックを使ってください。)

=item $Enum->Skip( [$count] )

=begin original

Skip the next $count elements of the enumeration.  The default for $count is 1.
The functions returns TRUE if at least $count elements could be skipped.  It
returns FALSE if not enough elements were left.

=end original

列挙の次の $count 分の要素を飛ばします。
$count のデフォルトは 1 です。
もし少なくとも $count 分の要素が飛ばすことができれば関数は TRUE を返します。
十分な数の要素が残っていなければ FALSE を返します。

=back

=head1 AUTHORS/COPYRIGHT

=begin original

This module is part of the Win32::OLE distribution.

=end original

このモジュールは Win32::OLE ディストリビューションの一部です。

=begin meta

Translate: Hippo2000 <GCD00051@nifty.ne.jp> (0.14)
Update: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org> (0.1502)
Status: completed

=end meta

=cut

