=head1 NAME

Filesys::DiskUsage - Estimate file space usage (similar to `du`)
Filesys::DiskUsage - duと類似した用い方でファイルスペースを見積もる

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Filesys::DiskUsage qw/du/;

  # basic
  $total = du(qw/file1 file2 directory1/);

or

  # no recursion
  $total = du( { recursive => 0 } , <*> );

or

  # max-depth is 1
  $total = du( { 'max-depth' => 1 } , <*> );

or

  # get an array
  @sizes = du( @files );

or

  # get a hash
  %sizes = du( { 'make-hash' => 1 }, @files_and_directories );

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 du

Estimate file space usage.
ファイルスペースを見積もる為の用い方

Get the size of files:
複数ファイルのサイズを取得する:

  $total = du(qw/file1 file2/);

Get the size of directories:
ディレクトリのサイズを取得する:

  $total = du(qw/file1 directory1/);

=head3 OPTIONS

=over 6

=item dereference

Follow symbolic links. Default is 0.
シンボリックリンクをたどる. デフォルトでは0.

Get the size of a directory, recursively, following symbolic links:
シンボリックリンクを再帰的にたどりディレクトリのサイズを取得する:

  $total = du( { dereference => 1 } , $dir );

=item exclude => PATTERN

Exclude files that match PATTERN.
PATTERNに一致したファイルを除く.

Get the size of every file except for dot files:
ドットファイルを除いた全てのファイルのサイズを取得する:

  $total = du( { exclude => qr/^\./ } , @files );

=item human-readable

Return sizes in human readable format (e.g., 1K 234M 2G)
人が読みやすいフォーマットでサイズを返す (e.g., 1K 234M 2G)

  $total = du ( { 'human-readable' => 1 } , @files );

=item Human-readable

Return sizes in human readable format, but use powers of 1000 instead
of 1024.
人が読みやすいフォーマットでサイズを返すが1024の代わりに1000を使用する.

  $total = du ( { 'Human-readable' => 1 } , @files );

=item make-hash

Return the results in a hash.
ハッシュで結果を返す.

  %sizes = du( { 'make-hash' => 1 } , @files );

=item max-depth

Sets the max-depth for recursion. A negative number means there is no
max-depth. Default is -1.
再帰させる最大深度を設定する.マイナスの数値は深度がないことを意味している.
デフォルトでは-1です.

Get the size of every file in the directory and immediate
subdirectories:
ディレクトリとサブディレクトリにある全てのファイルのサイズを取得する:

  $total = du( { 'max-depth' => 1 } , <*> );

=item recursive

Sets whether directories are to be explored or not. Set to 0 if you
don't want recursion. Default is 1. Overrides C<max-depth>.
調査するディレクトリであろうがなかろうがセットする.
再帰させたくない場合は0をセットして下さい.
デフォルトでは1です.C<max-depth>をオーバーライドします.

Get the size of every file in the directory, but not directories:
ディレクトリではなくディレクトリにある全てのファイルのサイズを取得する:

  $total = du( { recursive => 0 } , <*> );

=item truncate-readable => NUMBER

Human readable formats decimal places are truncated by the value of
this option. A negative number means the result won't be truncated at
all. Default if 2.
このオプションの値で人が読みやすいフォーマットの１０進桁数は端が欠けます.
マイナスの数値は桁の端が全く欠けないことを意味します.
デフォルトは2です.

Get the size of a file in human readable format with three decimal
places:
少数第3位の人が読みやすいフォーマットでファイルサイズを取得します.

  $size = du( { 'human-readable' => 1 , 'truncate-readable' => 3 } , $file);

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Jose Castro, C<< <cog@cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to
C<bug-disk-usage@rt.cpan.org>, or through the web interface at
L<http://rt.cpan.org>.  I will be notified, and then you'll
automatically be notified of progress on your bug as I make changes.

=head1 COPYRIGHT & LICENSE

Copyright 2004 Jose Castro, All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 翻訳者

 atsushi kobayashi(nekokak@users.sourceforge.jp)
