
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 名前

AutoLoader - 要求に応じてのみ、サブルーチンを読み込む。

=head1 概要

    package Foo;
    use AutoLoader 'AUTOLOAD';   # デフォルトのAUTOLOADサブルーチンを読み込む。

    package Bar;
    use AutoLoader;              # AUTOLOADをインポートしないで、自分自身のものを定義する。
    sub AUTOLOAD {
        ...
        $AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD = "...";
        goto &AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD;
    }

=head1 説明

=begin original

The B<AutoLoader> module works with the B<AutoSplit> module and the
C<__END__> token to defer the loading of some subroutines until they are
used rather than loading them all at once.

=end original

B<AutoLoader>モジュールは、B<AutoSplit>モジュールとC<__END__>トークン
と一緒に働き、サブルーチンすべてを一度に読み込むのではなくて、
使われるまで、サブルーチンの読み込みを延期します。

=begin original

To use B<AutoLoader>, the author of a module has to place the
definitions of subroutines to be autoloaded after an C<__END__> token.
(See L<perldata>.)  The B<AutoSplit> module can then be run manually to
extract the definitions into individual files F<auto/funcname.al>.

=end original

B<AutoLoader>を使うために、モジュールの作者は、
自動的に読み込むブルーチンの定義をC<__END__>トークン(L<perldata>を見てください)の後に置く必要があります。
B<AutoSplit>モジュールを走らせると、手動で定義を、個々のF<auto/funcname.al>ファイル抜きだします。

=begin original

B<AutoLoader> implements an AUTOLOAD subroutine.  When an undefined
subroutine in is called in a client module of B<AutoLoader>,
B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD subroutine attempts to locate the subroutine in a
file with a name related to the location of the file from which the
client module was read.  As an example, if F<POSIX.pm> is located in
F</usr/local/lib/perl5/POSIX.pm>, B<AutoLoader> will look for perl
subroutines B<POSIX> in F</usr/local/lib/perl5/auto/POSIX/*.al>, where
the C<.al> file has the same name as the subroutine, sans package.  If
such a file exists, AUTOLOAD will read and evaluate it,
thus (presumably) defining the needed subroutine.  AUTOLOAD will then
C<goto> the newly defined subroutine.

=end original

B<AutoLoader>は、AUTOLOADサブルーチンを実装します。
未定義のサブルーチンが、B<AutoLoader>のクライアントモジュールで、呼び出されると、
B<AutoLoader>のAUTOLOADサブルーチンは、
クライアントモジュールが読まれたそのファイルの位置に関係する名前で、
ファイル中のサブルーチンを見つけようとします。
例えば、F<POSIX.pm>なら、F</usr/local/lib/perl5/POSIX.pm>に見つかります。
B<AutoLoader>は、perlのB<POSIX>のサブルーチンをF</usr/local/lib/perl5/auto/POSIX/*.al>に見つけます。
C<.al>ファイルは、POSIXのサブルーチンと同じ名前です。パッケージ名はついていません。
そのようなファイルがあれば、AUTOLOAD は、それを読んで評価します。
このようにして、(たぶん、)必要とされるサブルーチンを定義します。
それから、AUTOLOADは新たに定義されたサブルーチンへC<goto>します。

=begin original

Once this process completes for a given function, it is defined, so
future calls to the subroutine will bypass the AUTOLOAD mechanism.

=end original

与えられた関数のために、一度このプロセスが実行され関数が定義されると、
(訳註:次回以降の)未来のサブルーチンの呼び出しは、AUTOLOADのメカニズムを無視します。

=head2 Subroutine Stubs

=begin original

In order for object method lookup and/or prototype checking to operate
correctly even when methods have not yet been defined it is necessary to
"forward declare" each subroutine (as in C<sub NAME;>).  See
L<perlsub/"SYNOPSIS">.  Such forward declaration creates "subroutine
stubs", which are place holders with no code.

=end original

メソッドがまだ定義されていないときにでも、
オブジェクトメソッドの調査および/または、プロトタイプチェックを、
正確に行うために、それぞれのサブルーチンを(C<sub NAME;>のように)、
"前宣言"する必要があります。L<pelsub/"SYNOPSIS">を見てください。
このような前宣言は、"subroutine stubs"を作ります。
これは、コード無しのプレースホルダです。

=begin original

The AutoSplit and B<AutoLoader> modules automate the creation of forward
declarations.  The AutoSplit module creates an 'index' file containing
forward declarations of all the AutoSplit subroutines.  When the
AutoLoader module is 'use'd it loads these declarations into its callers
package.

=end original

AutoSplit と、B<AutoLoader>モジュールは前宣言の作成を自動化します。
AutoSplit モジュールは、'index'ファイルを作り、そこに、
AutoSplitが分割した、すべてのサブルーチンの前宣言を置きます。
AutoLoaderモジュールが、'use'されると、その呼び出しパッケージに、
それらの定義を読み込みます。 

=begin original

Because of this mechanism it is important that B<AutoLoader> is always
C<use>d and not C<require>d.

=end original

このメカニズムのために、B<AutoLoader>が、つねに、C<use>され、
C<require>されないということが重要です。

=head2 B<AutoLoader> の AUTOLOAD サブルーチンを使う

=begin original

In order to use B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD subroutine you I<must>
explicitly import it:

=end original

B<AutoLoader>のAUTOLOADサブルーチンために、
明示的にそれをインポートI<しなければなりません>。

    use AutoLoader 'AUTOLOAD';

=head2 B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD サブルーチンをオーバーロードする

=begin original

Some modules, mainly extensions, provide their own AUTOLOAD subroutines.
They typically need to check for some special cases (such as constants)
and then fallback to B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD for the rest.

=end original

いくつかのモジュールには、主な拡張として、自分自身のAUTOLOADサブルーチンをもっています。
それらは、典型的に、いくつかの特別なケース(定数のような)のために、チェックする必要があり、
そして、それから、残りのために、B<AutoLoader>のAUTOLOADにフォールバックする必要があります。

=begin original

Such modules should I<not> import B<AutoLoader>'s AUTOLOAD subroutine.
Instead, they should define their own AUTOLOAD subroutines along these
lines:

=end original

このようなモジュールはB<AutoLoader>のAUTOLOADサブルーチンをインポートすべきではI<ありません>。
そのかわりに、そういうモジュールは、自分自身のAUTOLOADサブルーチンを定義すべきです。
次のようにします:

    use AutoLoader;
    use Carp;

    sub AUTOLOAD {
        my $sub = $AUTOLOAD;
        (my $constname = $sub) =~ s/.*:://;
        my $val = constant($constname, @_ ? $_[0] : 0);
        if ($! != 0) {
            if ($! =~ /Invalid/ || $!{EINVAL}) {
                $AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD = $sub;
                goto &AutoLoader::AUTOLOAD;
            }
            else {
                croak "Your vendor has not defined constant $constname";
            }
        }
        *$sub = sub { $val }; # same as: eval "sub $sub { $val }";
        goto &$sub;
    }

=begin original

If any module's own AUTOLOAD subroutine has no need to fallback to the
AutoLoader's AUTOLOAD subroutine (because it doesn't have any AutoSplit
subroutines), then that module should not use B<AutoLoader> at all.

=end original

(AutoSplitするサブルーチンを全くもっていないために)、モジュールのAUTOLOADサブルーチンが、
AutoLoaderのAUTOLOADサブルーチンにフォールバックする必要がなければ、
そのモジュールはB<AutoLoader>を、全く使わないべきです。

=head2 Package Lexicals

Package lexicals declared with C<my> in the main block of a package
using B<AutoLoader> will not be visible to auto-loaded subroutines, due to
the fact that the given scope ends at the C<__END__> marker.  A module
using such variables as package globals will not work properly under the
B<AutoLoader>.

B<AutoLoader>を使っているパッケージの main ブロックで、
C<my>で宣言されたパッケージレキシカルの変数は、自動的に読み込まれたサブルーチンには見えません。
これは、与えられたスコープがC<__END__>マーカーで終るという事実によります。
そのような変数をパッケージのグローバル変数のように使っているモジュールは、
B<AutoLoader>のもとでは、うまく動きません。

=begin original

The C<vars> pragma (see L<perlmod/"vars">) may be used in such
situations as an alternative to explicitly qualifying all globals with
the package namespace.  Variables pre-declared with this pragma will be
visible to any autoloaded routines (but will not be invisible outside
the package, unfortunately).

=end original

C<vars>プラグマ(L<perlmod/"vars">を見てください)が、こういった状況で、
パッケージの名前空間で明示的に完全修飾したグローバル変数に変わるものとして、使われるでしょう。
このプラグマで先に宣言された変数は、どんな、自動的に読み込まれるルーチンにも見えます。
(ですが、不運なことに、パッケージの外側からは見ることが出来ません。)

=head2 AutoLoaderを使わない

=begin original

You can stop using AutoLoader by simply

=end original

AutoLoaderを使わなくするには、単純に次のようにします。

	no AutoLoader;

=head2 B<AutoLoader> vs. B<SelfLoader>

=begin original

The B<AutoLoader> is similar in purpose to B<SelfLoader>: both delay the
loading of subroutines.

=end original

B<AutoLoader>は、B<SelfLoader>の目的と類似性があります：
両方ともサブルーチンの読み込みを遅らせるものです。

=begin original

B<SelfLoader> uses the C<__DATA__> marker rather than C<__END__>.
While this avoids the use of a hierarchy of disk files and the
associated open/close for each routine loaded, B<SelfLoader> suffers a
startup speed disadvantage in the one-time parsing of the lines after
C<__DATA__>, after which routines are cached.  B<SelfLoader> can also
handle multiple packages in a file.

=end original

B<SelfLoader> は、C<__END__>ではなくて、C<__DATA__> マーカーを使います。
このことにより、それぞれのルーチンを読み込むために、
ディスクファイルの階層と関連する open/close を使うのを避ける一方で、
B<SelfLoader>は、ルーチンがキャッシュされているC<__DATA__>を一行一行、
一時的に解析するので、スタートアップのスピードのディスアドバンテージに耐えなければなりません。
B<SelfLoader>は、一つのファイルに複数のパッケージを取り扱えます。

=begin original

B<AutoLoader> only reads code as it is requested, and in many cases
should be faster, but requires a mechanism like B<AutoSplit> be used to
create the individual files.  L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> will invoke
B<AutoSplit> automatically if B<AutoLoader> is used in a module source
file.

=end original

B<AutoLoader>は、それがリクエストされた時に、コードを読むだけです。
多くのケースで、これは、速いです。ですが、独立したファイルを作成するのに、
使われるB<AutoSplit>のようなメカニズムを必要とします。
B<AutoLoader>が、モジュールのソースファイルで使われると、
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>は、B<AutoSplit>を自動的に呼び出します。

=head1 警告

=begin original

AutoLoaders prior to Perl 5.002 had a slightly different interface.  Any
old modules which use B<AutoLoader> should be changed to the new calling
style.  Typically this just means changing a require to a use, adding
the explicit C<'AUTOLOAD'> import if needed, and removing B<AutoLoader>
from C<@ISA>.

=end original

Perl 5.002 より前のAutoLoaderは、ちょっと違ったインターフェースでした。
B<AutoLoader>を使っている古いモジュールは、どんなものでも、
新しいスタイルの呼び出しに変更するべきです。一般に、このことは、次のことを意味します。
require を use  に変えること、必要なら明示的なC<'AUTOLOAD'>のインポートを加えること、
@ISAから、B<AutoLoader>を削除することです。

=begin original

On systems with restrictions on file name length, the file corresponding
to a subroutine may have a shorter name that the routine itself.  This
can lead to conflicting file names.  The I<AutoSplit> package warns of
these potential conflicts when used to split a module.

=end original

システムに、ファイル名の長さに関する制限があると、
ファイルとサブルーチンの一致のために、ルーチン自身がより短い名前になるかもしれません。
このことは、ファイル名の衝突を引き起こすかも知れません。
I<AutoSplit>パッケージは、モジュールを分割するときに、
こういった潜在的な衝突を警告します。

=begin original

AutoLoader may fail to find the autosplit files (or even find the wrong
ones) in cases where C<@INC> contains relative paths, B<and> the program
does C<chdir>.

=end original

C<@INC>の中に相対パスがあるときに、プログラムがC<chdir>した場合、
AutoLoader は、自動的に分割されたファイルを見付けるのに失敗するかも知れません
(または、間違ったファイルを見つけるかも知れません)。

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<SelfLoader> - 外部ファイルを使わないオートローダー
