=head1 NAME

Test::Unit - PerlUnit テスティングフレームワーク

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This package provides no functionality; it just serves as an
overview of the available modules in the framework.

このパッケージには機能性はありません。フレームワークで
利用できるモジュールの窓口のように働くだけです。

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This framework is intended to support unit testing in an
object-oriented development paradigm (with support for
inheritance of tests etc.) and is derived from the JUnit
testing framework for Java by Kent Beck and Erich Gamma.  To
start learning how to use this framework, see
L<Test::Unit::TestCase> and L<Test::Unit::TestSuite>.  (There
will also eventually be a tutorial in
L<Test::Unit::Tutorial>.

このフレームワークは、（テストの継承のためのサポートを含んだ）
オブジェクト指向開発パラダイムでのユニットテストを
手助けすることを目的としています。また、Kent Beck と Erich Gamma 
による Java のためのテスティングフレームワークである JUnit に
由来しています。このフレームワークの使い方を学び始めるには、
L<Test::Unit::TestCase> と L<Test::Unit::TestSuite> を見てください。
（ゆくゆくは、チュートリアル L<Test::Unit::Tutorial> もどうぞ。）

However C<Test::Unit::Procedural> is the procedural style
interface to a sophisticated unit testing framework for Perl
that .  Test::Unit is intended to provide a simpler
interface to the framework that is more suitable for use in a
scripting style environment.  Therefore, Test::Unit does not
provide much support for an object-oriented approach to unit
testing.

また一方では、C<Test::Unit::Procedural> は Perl のための
洗練されたユニットテスティングフレームワークである
手続き型インタフェースも用意しています。Test::Unit は、
スクリプト言語にとても適しているフレームワークの簡単な
インタフェースを提供することも目的としています。

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (c) 2000, 2001 the PerlUnit Development Team
(see the F<AUTHORS> file included in this distribution).

All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Test::Unit::TestCase>

=item *

L<Test::Unit::TestSuite>

=item *

L<Test::Unit::Procedural>

=back

=head1 FEEDBACK

The Perl Unit development team are humans. In part we develop stuff
because it scratches our collective itch but we'd also really like to
know if it scratches yours. Please subscribe to the perlunit-users
mailing list at
L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perlunit-users> and let
us know what you love and hate about PerlUnit and what else you want
to do with it.

The Perl Unit development team があります。その活動の一環として、
集団的な問題を解決するために開発しています。
しかし、あなたが既に解決策を知っているならば知らせてください。
L<http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/perlunit-users> にある
perlunit-users メーリングリストに参加して、PerlUnit への
示唆や苦言（you love and hate）をください。そして、そのことについて
どうすればいいのかも教えてください。

=cut

