
=encoding euc-jp

=head1 NAME

=begin original

HTTP::Cookies::Netscape - access to Netscape cookies files

=end original

HTTP::Cookies::Netscape - Netscape のクッキーファイルにアクセスする

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use LWP;
 use HTTP::Cookies::Netscape;
 $cookie_jar = HTTP::Cookies::Netscape->new(
   file => "c:/program files/netscape/users/ZombieCharity/cookies.txt",
 );
 my $browser = LWP::UserAgent->new;
 $browser->cookie_jar( $cookie_jar );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=begin original

This is a subclass of C<HTTP::Cookies> that reads (and optionally
writes) Netscape/Mozilla cookie files.

=end original

これは Netscape/Mozilla クッキーファイルを読み込む(そしてオプションとして
書き込む)ための C<HTTP::Cookies> のサブクラスです。

=begin original

See the documentation for L<HTTP::Cookies>.

=end original

L<HTTP::Cookies> の説明を参照してください。

=head1 CAVEATS

=begin original

Please note that the Netscape/Mozilla cookie file format can't store
all the information available in the Set-Cookie2 headers, so you will
probably lose some information if you save in this format.

=end original

Netscape/Mozilla クッキーファイル形式は Set-Cookie2 ヘッダで
利用可能な全ての情報は保存できないので、この形式で保存すると
おそらくいくつかのデータが失われることに注意してください。

=begin original

At time of writing, this module seems to work fine with Mozilla      
Phoenix/Firebird.

=end original

書き込み時には、このモジュールは Mozilla Phoenix/Firebird では
うまく動作しているように見えます。

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<HTTP::Cookies::Microsoft>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2003 Gisle Aas

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=begin meta

Translate: SHIRAKATA Kentaro <argrath@ub32.org>
Status: completed

=end meta

=cut

